I would not be outright short dressed.
Stay invested. [music] Don't try to time
this market.
>> It's a little bit of a high convexity
trade still.
>> The market isn't necessarily going in
and rewarding everyone.
>> We still think the branding story is
happening.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now coming
into Monday extending gains. Tech stocks
looking to add to a 5-week winning
streak as the White House [music] is
outlining vague plans to help some ships
exit the straight. The Treasury is
insisting that Iran's energy industry
>> [music]
>> is at breaking point. Crude inching
higher this morning.
>> So the Treasury Secretary said next week
we could see shutdowns when it comes to
Iranian oil wells, [music] but 2 weeks
ago he said it was just a matter of
days. So this story just continues to
linger. Well, the president Jonathan put
out this Truth Social post yesterday
afternoon saying that they were going to
start guiding ships through the Strait
of Hormuz immediately at the open.
>> [music]
>> You saw oil fall. But then there was a
Wall Street Journal report saying that
actually this isn't going to be naval
guides. It's more electronic guiding.
And now that's why you see basically
we're back to square one and nothing has
really changed on the ground.
>> The hope he doesn't bite quite the same
way. I was watching the golf yesterday.
The president was attending Cadillac
Championship. Cam Young wins by five six
shots something like that. And then the
president hit send on social [music]
media. I'm not sure it's playing out in
quite the same way. So basically that
optics doesn't really work if you're at
the golf, how can you actually maybe be
directing the guidance of the fifth
navy's fifth fleet into making sure
these vessels come safely out of the
Strait of Hormuz. Maybe it's not
working, but at this moment they are
still in this mode of trying to move at
least through humanitarian effort some
of these vessels out electronically. I
think the proof is in the pudding. We
have to see if any of these vessels are
able to escape. And on top of that the
president also said in this post that
they are having positive discussions his
representatives with the Iranians. Do we
believe it? Again, proof in the pudding.
>> We've heard that a few times too. So
let's just go through the three options.
They haven't really changed. [music]
Maintain the blockade, resume the
bombing, walk away. Set this repeatedly
over the last week and could change
really quickly, but for now the
administration seems pretty comfortable
with option number one, maintain the
blockade.
>> Yes, and the Treasury Secretary said
yesterday that they are running a
marathon over the past 12 months and now
we are sprinting towards the finish
line. They are not able to pay their
soldiers. This is a real [music]
economic blockade. They think the
blockade is working and it is working.
Iran's economy right now is in [music]
dire straits, but does it mean that we
are going to see them collapsing within
the next days or weeks that they
continue this administration [music]
continues to promise? I'm not sure we're
there yet.
>> Let's talk about the week ahead. Last
week full of earnings. This week full of
economic data. The big one on Friday,
payrolls Friday. The estimate in our
service 65K. It's the data and some Fed
speak that matter this week.
>> Absolutely. The data is going to matter
especially to the financial markets
given the fact that where does this
Federal Reserve sit right now? We heard
from Neil Kashkari [music] over the
weekend basically saying that right now
when his little bit more of a hawkish
tone [music]
is because potentially what's going on
in Iran Jonathan could mean could a hike
at some point when it comes to this
economy.
>> Futures turning lower just seconds ago.
We're negative on the session now by
about a tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour
we'll catch up with Alex Altman of
Barclays with stocks looking to add to
record highs. Norman Roll of CSIS with
the US set to guide ships through the
Strait of Hormuz. And Aditya Bank of
America looking ahead to the payrolls
report. We begin this hour with global
stocks holding steady with tech leading
the way. Alex Altman of Barclays writing
until positioning gets more full, it is
hard to position bearish even after this
rally. Alex joins us now for more. Alex,
good morning.
>> Good to see you. Before we talk about
irrational or rational, let's talk about
exuberance. Where are you seeing
exuberance at the moment?
Honestly, not that many spots. I suppose
we have to gravitate towards the
semiconductor index. That would be one
place that I would say the word
exuberance in semiconductors after a
blistering 50% rally has has sort of
become conjoined. But actually if you
look beyond just the price action
itself, look at the number of
constituents within the semiconductor
index that are seeing cool vol
above put vol. I mean you're seeing a
demand for that for that that right
tail. It's just not there. Not even like
it was earlier in the year. So and then
look at things like Bitcoin still down
on the year. And then actually look at
headline indices. Yes, they're up, but
actually year-to-date it's relatively
modest. So people I think have become
very focused on the path to get here and
the velocity rather than actually
necessarily taking stock of where we
are. So what's your message to people
who are looking at this and they've
missed it? The 50% move off the lows
that we've seen at say chips. The rally
we've seen double digits on the S&P 500
and a little bit more on the Nasdaq 100.
What's your advice to those people?
Okay, so I think there's there's two
things. First of all, I think we have to
work off the assumption that clearly the
pace we've just seen over the past month
is non-repeatable. We had the 27th month
in the S&P since 1928. It was the second
best April ever. So I think we have to
work off the assumption moving back to a
more normalized pace of S&P returns
something along the lines of I call it a
percent a month is kind of where your
average is. S&P goes up on average 73%
of the time on a sort of forward one to
two month basis. So that's kind of what
we got to work off. The other thing is
we've got to work off asymmetry. Like
the the market is no longer asymmetric
like it was as we were advocating in
March and April.
Right now I think our forecast is
Barclays research is around about 7600.
So you still got a little bit of upside,
but at the same time we have to work off
the assumption there is back to a
negative decay for risk assets. I mean
the longer this goes on within the
Straits of Hormuz, the more problems
we're now going to face. A lot of the
buffer that we had in place going into
this debacle is now going to get eroded.
So if this is still dealing with this
blockade at the end of May, then I think
we have to work off the assumption the
symmetry of risk isn't looking great.
Things are starting to change and we
noticed this catching up with a few
individuals from the research team at
Barclays. It's not that the situation in
the Middle East didn't matter. It just
didn't matter yet. Are we getting closer
to that point now then? We are. Yes. I
mean you have to work off the
assumption. Okay, so we've got what? 22
days of gasoline reserves. We've got a a
couple of weeks worth of other
distillate reserves. We we came in with
a huge oil buffer. We also bearing in
mind it takes 3 weeks for a lot of these
tankers that already left the Strait of
Hormuz to get to where they were going.
So again, are we 8 weeks into this
crisis? Arguably it's more like five. So
as we move through May, we're going to
be dealing with bigger problems and I
think we have to acknowledge that
including individuals that have been
bullish such as myself. So what happens
to the what happens in the reaction the
market the end of May if this blockade
continues and we're still in this
impasse? So if you talk to our oil
research that they think that if we're
still dealing with the blockade by the
end of May, it's going to be another $20
on WTI and Brent. So we're talking about
somewhere around about 110 to TI and
about 130
in in Brent and that's going to be start
becoming a problem.
You think about the US from you we're
going to be entering driving season.
Think about Europe obviously. They said
3 weeks ago they were going to run out
of jet fuel. They mean well they're
still flying planes last time I checked,
but you have to work off the assumption
that this is going to become more and
more problem more acute and it's
obviously non-linear as well.
>> But I mean what happens to equities?
Oh, without a doubt you got equities are
going to start to decay again. Much akin
to what we saw in March. So that
behavior in March that you basically had
that positive re-K from oil and the
decay of equities, that will start to
re-exert itself. And again, I think we
have to acknowledge that.
>> Starting to see the move in crude this
morning. Early days things can change,
but Brent up more than more than 3%.
Brent back to about 112. As the bond
market gets moving, Treasury yields
higher at the front end of the curve up
by five basis points pushing 392. Is
that becoming a bigger consideration
now? The moves that we're starting to
see once more in the bond market
retesting and breaking through the highs
of earlier this year. Absolutely. And I
think there's two dimensions. Dimension
one is the fact that the 30-year got
back to 5% and no one mentioned
anything. So I think a breach of 5% at
the back end I think would be a serious
problem in that regard. And the second
one is we've got to talk about real
yields. I mean Anne Marie asked about
what the impact of equities is. Equities
are sensitive ultimately to the real
yield trajectory. So if real yields are
moving back up as a function of nominal
yields and break evens not moving as as
quickly, then I think equity risk
premium has a problem.
>> Is this Fed getting closer to hiking?
Well, I would hope that that the Fed
>> aligned with that hope by the way. I
know what's coming. I would I would hope
that the that the Fed would take from
take very much from the Greenspan
playbook of the early '90s, which is
whenever there was an oil shock
Alan Greenspan famously said I'm not
going to do anything at all and I'm just
going to wait and watch. That is so far
what the Fed have said. We've changed as
a as a house our forecast. We're only
forecasting one cut in 2027 now. So
effectively the entire curve is assuming
that wait and watch scenario. Is there a
chance they could hike?
There is a chance. Do I think it would
be the right thing to do for central
bank policy? No, we've all seen what the
feedback has been from the ECB recently.
>> We thought the ECB would learn from
Trichet. Now the ECB looks closer to
doing the same thing all over again
maybe as soon as June. If you're just
tuning into the program, welcome. Equity
futures were slightly positive then they
rolled over into negative territory.
Crude started to climb Brent and WTI.
Brent right now up to about 113 and up
by 4% on the session. With that move in
crude, a move at the front end of the
yield curve twos up by five basis
points. Let's round this up to 393 on a
two-year yield so far this morning. So
what we're seeing right now though
Jonathan is some fresh headlines out of
Iran saying they're announcing a new
control zone in the Strait of Hormuz. I
think we need to understand exactly what
this control zone is, but they say it
stretches through Fujairah, which of
course is in the United Arab Emirates.
Maybe this is something that is pushing
back on the president United States
saying they're going to be able to guide
ships actually out of the Strait of
Hormuz if Iran is saying actually we are
going to re-exert that control in the
waterway.
>> This is pretty exhausting stuff. Can you
just walk us through how your clients
feel about this issue? I know how I feel
covering this issue from day to day.
What are clients telling you? Are they
fatigued? exhausted by ignoring gear?
What are they doing now? Yeah, I think
that in short they are. They're
exhausted. I mean, I would give you the
the most consensus feedback is they're
exhausted not having a weekend for the
past 2 months. And and that that really
>> That's 2 months. So, that's the entire
2026. I would say that we've crammed an
entire year's worth of information into
the span of about 4 months. You're
absolutely right. Uh but I would say
that that ultimately is what's keeping a
lot of trepidation from deploying risk.
Going back to your original point,
Jonathan, in terms of
how a client's feeling or where where's
the path of risk? The challenge is is
that if you're still only deploying,
say, 50% of your risk budget or 60-70%
of risk budget, there's room to clearly
grow that in an environment should the
backdrop normalize. But no one wants to
be short here, do they?
I would say that people are still um
looking for interesting ways to hedge
their portfolios as opposed to
necessarily being short. It's very rare
that people actually, you know, really
lean into a short.
>> What's an interesting way to hedge your
portfolio right now? Well, actually, you
know what? If you actually look at the
skew profile of the S&P because we've
rallied so much, skew in the S&P has
actually come down a lot. And so, that
actually the put vol relative to call
vol in in index is actually very
attractive right now. So, one of the
things that we were advocating was
actually thinking about the right right
tail as in call options outright as we
were moving through March. Now, the
smarter trade, I believe, is to actually
think about having your portfolio of
risk and hedging it with puts. So,
you're effectively synthetically still
long a call, but you actually are
hedging the left tail rather than the
right tail. Alex, good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Going to be a
long week again. But, it was Friday
feels a long way away. Equity futures
rolling over just a little bit. We're
down by 0.4%. Crude higher, bond yields
higher, too. Let's get an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vani Quinn has more.
Hey, Vani. [music] Good morning, John.
President Donald Trump saying the US
will be in guiding some neutral ships
through the Strait of Hormuz today. US
Central Command saying it will provide
military support. An Iranian official
posting on X that any US interference in
Hormuz would violate [music] the
ceasefire.
President Donald Trump says he is
raising tariffs on cars and trucks from
the European Union, claiming the block
has failed to fully comply with the
trade agreement. Trump says the levies
will not apply to automobiles built
[music] in US facilities.
China directing companies to ignore US
sanctions on private refiners linked to
the Iranian oil trade. China's move
testing the US sanctions system and
coming ahead of a planned meeting
between President Trump and China's Xi
Jinping.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Hey, Vani, thank you. More from Vani a
little bit later this hour. Up next on
the program, ready [music] for a deal.
Doing very well with regard to Iran.
Uh again, they want to make a deal.
They're decimated. If we left right now,
it would take them 20 years to rebuild.
But, we're not leaving right now. Up
next, we catch up with Norman Roule of
CSIS live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Just a little bit of risk aversion
kicking in in the [music] last 15
minutes or so. Equity futures down
across the board on the S&P by 0.5, on
the Russell by 0.9. This is the move in
the commodity market. Crude higher
[music] by close to 5% 113 on Brent and
yields up across the curve, but
particularly at the front end of the
yield curve. Twos up by five basis
points 393
on twos this morning. Well, Jonathan,
what you see right now in the Middle
East is nothing has changed even though
the president has said [music] they are
guiding humanitarian vessels through the
Strait of Hormuz. Sounds like electronic
guiding. [music] This is not a naval
escort that many were thinking that the
United States did actually years ago in
the 1980s. And Iranian media has come
out and they're announcing a new control
zone in the Strait of Hormuz. Although
the United States remains this blockade
that is in place, the IRGC is still in
control of the Strait of Hormuz.
>> around for details and headlines on that
story. We'll get them to you [music]
when we see them. Under Savannah's this
morning, ready for a deal.
Doing very well with regard to Iran.
Uh again, they want to make a deal.
They're decimated. It's a very friendly
blockade. Nobody's even challenging it.
Nobody at all is challenging. If we left
right now, it would take them 20 years
to rebuild.
But, we're not leaving right now. We're
going to do it so nobody has to go back
in 2 years or 5 years. So, here's the
latest this morning. The president
announcing the US will have ships
transit the Strait of Hormuz. Iran
warning US forces will be attacked if
they enter the waterway. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now from
Washington for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump says that these efforts to help
guide some commercial vessels will begin
today in what is largely seen as a
potential test for Iran's grip over the
Strait of Hormuz. As we get these new
headlines that it appears, according to
Iranian state media, that the country
has outlined a new map of its control of
the waterway. Now, the thing is, we have
gotten very little details on exactly
what President Trump's uh operation that
he has dubbed Project Freedom will
entail, though he says that it extends
to neutral vessels that are
victims of circumstance. According to
CENTCOM, what is being known as the
enhanced security area has been
established for coordination and that
the US military is going to allocate
guided missile destroyers, aircraft, and
drones to the efforts. But, the Wall
Street Journal reported earlier that as
of now, the plan does not include
actually having naval warship warships
escort the tankers. It comes amid very
little public movement at least towards
a diplomatic deal to reopen the Strait.
Though, President Trump does maintain
that progress is being made in private.
And we did hear from Iranian state media
over the weekend that the country was
reviewing the US's response to its
proposal that was put on the table and
would seek to postpone any talks about
its nuclear program, something
considered to be a non-starter for this
White House. But, John, over the
weekend, President Trump didn't rule out
the potential that he could restart
military strikes in order to get the
ball moving when it comes to
negotiations. Though, the administration
says for now they are going to keep up
that economic pressure. Tyler Kendall
with the latest in Washington. Tyler,
stay close. Norman Roule of CSIS writes
the following, "There is still no
evidence that either Washington or
Tehran is prepared to make the
concessions necessary for a near-term
settlement." Norm joins us now for more.
Norm, welcome to the program. Things
feel a little bit tense coming into this
week. How fragile is this truce still?
Good morning. Well, we have two
countries that are each
uninterested in starting hostilities,
but neither are as are interested in
making the concessions that would bring
about a settlement uh as I mentioned
earlier. Uh the peace talks do remain
ongoing and that is a good thing and are
likely to continue. And I think what
we're watching with Washington with
Project Freedom is to test the
environment to see how far Iran is
willing to go to change the atmosphere
of the region. So, the next couple of
days will be quite important. But, Norm,
Project Freedom it sounds like
electronic guiding of ships through the
Strait of Hormuz. Is that actually
possible? Do these ships actually need a
naval escort?
Well, they don't need a naval escort per
se, but just because we're providing
electronic guidance doesn't mean that we
wouldn't be uh
also having radar, having perhaps air
surveillance. And if they were to come
under attack, that doesn't mean that we
wouldn't be able to provide assistance
if that decision were to be made. And we
would be able to do so, but presumably
from aircraft, for example,
if that were needed. Now, when you're
talking about how the ships are moving,
it's conceivable they could be moving
through Omani waters. So, let's pull
this issue apart. We've watched the
Iranians in the last few
weeks use their own waters to move ships
from the north of the of the Persian
Gulf to Pakistan. It could be that what
is being considered is just to allow
ships to move through Omani waters
through the
Strait of Hormuz
and then to exit through the Arabian
Sea. So, in essence, it's a reverse of
what the
Iranians themselves are doing. And then
if the Iranians were to attack, they
would be in essence attacking into Omani
territory. The Omanis would have given
the US permission to conduct operations.
We would be providing defensive support.
All of that would be
legal under international law. So,
again, that is a
hypothetical scenario, but that is
something that might be possible. Iran
this morning is announcing a new control
zone of the Strait of Hormuz. Is there
any evidence that they're going to allow
the US to have such operation?
Well, there's no evidence that the
Iranians
are going to say anything that the US
will care about. I mean, the Iranians
are going to
make a number of statements exerting
their control over the Strait of Hormuz,
but the US doesn't recognize that
because they have no legal authority to
control an international waterway. So,
this is just another statement by the
Iranian government and their parliament
has made a number of statements
making such claims. So, this is just one
more in a long line of such statements.
Norm, when do you think the Iranian oil
industry will start to see shut-ins and
really be forced to potentially have a
little bit more of an economic collapse
in the oil industry? The Treasury
Secretary yesterday said next week,
although 2 weeks ago he said it was just
a matter of days. We are seeing the
Iranians use alternative routes like
putting some oil by rail to China. At
what point do you think we see really
economic collapse?
Well, we're certain that this Treasury
Secretary was correct. Within some days,
the Iranian system was facing severe
problems. They started to use
old ships that they had had in storage
to store oil and they are indeed sending
some oil out through land routes through
Pakistan reportedly, but this does not
relieve them of their problem. But the
question really becomes that once they
start shutting oil fields, does this
really change their decision-making? And
so there is a question of will they feel
like an pain and will the pain be
sufficient to actually matter in terms
of the diplomatic negotiations. So yes,
they will start feeling pain
significantly increased probably in
about a week to two weeks, but it's
going to be some time after that before
they actually reach a point where it
starts to degrade IRGC revolutionary
guard operations and government
operations to the point where the
government feels they have to make
changes. That could be some time. But we
should be upfront. The Iranian
government is losing hundreds of
millions of dollars a day because of
their decision-making and that is
certainly impacting the debate within
within their decision-making. However,
as we've seen over the weekend, it has
not changed their
diplomatic positions which in
essentially remain unchanged from the
beginning of the war. The president will
be heading to China soon. At what
moment could China potentially play a
bigger role to making sure that the
Iranians actually show up to the table
and have a negotiation with the United
States?
No country has significant influence
over Iranian decision-making.
Iranians, however, do use a number of
countries as doorways to diplomatic
exits when they wish to do so and China,
Russia, Pakistan could be those doorways
when necessary, but we should be clear.
China does not have significant
influence over
the Supreme Council for National
Security in in Iran or they would have
stopped this war sometime ago. We should
recall that China was a facilitator for
the Saudi Iranian peace accord of March
2023 and that obviously
mean it didn't mean anything. Where do
you think talks stand right now because
the president yesterday who announced
this operation to guide ships through
the Strait of Hormuz also said that
there have been positive discussions
with the Iranians.
Well, talks are underway indirectly
through the Pakistanis which indicates
that the diplomatic process does exist
and that's a good thing and it shows
that a process exists vice a move
towards hostilities. So as long as that
that trend continues, we're moving in
the right directions. At the same time,
the president has has a good history of
showing that when he feels his time has
been wasted, he will move to
military action and we do have two
aircraft carrier task forces in the
region and those
military personnel are prepared to
initiate operations to clear the Strait
of Hormuz which of course would mean
operations against theater ballistic
missiles and drones in mainland Iran
were that to
order be given. Norman, always good to
hear from you, sir. Enjoy your
perspective. Norman Rolfe of CSIS on the
situation in the Middle East. Here's the
situation on Wall Street right now in
financial markets. We'll start with
stocks, we'll turn to commodities and
then get to fixed income. Equities are
down by 0.5% on the S&P 500. Some real
underperformance on the Russell and
small caps at the moment. Turning to
crude, Brent and WTI elevated by some
5%. Brent at about 114, WTI at about
107. There was a lift in crude about 20
minutes ago. It's continued and with
that move in crude, this move in the
bond market yields higher across the
curve. Two's up by five basis points at
about 393.
Plenty of speculation of rumors to what
is happening right now in that region.
Yeah, there's lots of speculation what
is going on. Clearly, Jonathan, though
it is not what we were hoping for maybe
yesterday afternoon when the president
came out and said the United States
going to be guiding ships through the
Strait of Hormuz. There was positive
talks between his representatives and
the Iranians. Right now, it does seem to
think that things maybe [music] took a
turn for turn turn south.
>> We'll come back to those headlines in
just a moment. Coming up on the program,
Laura Galante of WestExec Advisors as
the Pentagon goes all in on AI. Plus,
Jaharris dropping by. She's got your
morning movers. GameStop [music]
making a $56 billion bid for eBay. eBay
up in the premarket by 10%. [music]
Coming off the back of all-time highs on
the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq 100, five
consecutive weeks of gains on both of
those.
Equity futures right now on the S&P
negative by a third of 1%. On the Nasdaq
also down by 0.3% on the Russell down by
0.8.
Let's turn to the commodity market.
Crude, Brent and WTI 113, call it 114.
Crude up by 5% on Brent. On WTI up by 45
at 107. And with that move in crude,
you're seeing yields drift higher as
well. Two's up by five. The two-year at
393.
That's the setup this Monday morning.
Let's get you some single names. The
morning movers, Jaharris has more. Hey,
Jaharris. Hi, John. We start with shares
of eBay. They are soaring 10 and 1/2% in
the premarket as GameStop makes a pretty
audacious move to try and buy the
company for [music] $56 billion. I say
audacious because eBay is about four
times the size of GameStop, but it
[music] is a clearly a move for GameStop
to try and transform itself as its
retail business
>> [music]
>> continues to shrink. Speaking of
shrinking or going away altogether, the
collapse of Spirit Airlines over the
weekend is helping to it was helping to
lift shares [music]
of Frontier though they are now
unchanged in the premarket since
Frontier, a fellow low-cost carrier,
could have a real opening here to scoop
up routes plus those budget [music]
travelers left behind, but it still
faces mounting challenges whether it's
ongoing losses [music]
or those higher fuel costs. And we end
on shares of Coinbase rising 2 and 1/2%
in the [music] premarket as the company
says it has struck a deal when it comes
to stablecoin rewards which could clear
the path for the Clarity Act to move
forward. Remember, this is a major piece
of crypto legislation and those rewards
have been a key sticking point facing
major pushback from banks [music] who
are worried about competition for
deposits. John. Hey, Jaharris, thank
you. More from Jaharris in the next hour
or so. On our way down this morning,
President Donald Trump said the US
military will have to guide ships
through the Strait of Hormuz describing
it as quote a humanitarian gesture. Iran
vowing to attack any American forces
that enter the waterway. As well, China
directing companies to ignore US
sanctions on private refiners linked to
the Iranian oil trade. The unprecedented
move coming ahead of a long-awaited
meeting between President Trump and the
Chinese leader Xi Jinping later this
month. And finally, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent saying the US
blockade of Iranian ports will push the
country's leaders to back off.
Their oil infrastructure is starting to
creak. They are rapidly filling up
filling up storage and as that happens,
they're going to have to start shutting
in wells which we think could be in the
next week. I can tell you that
we we are suffocating the regime. This
is a real economic blockade. Bessent
saying the US is also monitoring Iran's
financial networks and any attempts to
move money into the country. So what's
interesting here is the Treasury
Secretary this says this is going to
happen next week. And this is what the
United States wants to see with this
blockade. They want to see basically the
regime absolutely crumble because the
economy is hitting the end of what it
can handle. But here's the thing,
Jonathan. April 21st, two weeks ago, the
Treasury Secretary said that it was
going to happen in a matter of days. Now
it's next week. The problem this
administration might have is that it is
just going to take longer than they
expected and that might mean that it
might take longer than expected for the
Iranians to be willing to feel that
economic pain, to be willing to then
show up at the negotiating table.
>> Pretty fast start to the morning already
this Monday morning. You would have
noticed it around 6:00 a.m. Eastern
time. Crude started to pop, yields did
too, equities started to roll over.
There was some speculation, some rumors
accordingly coming from Iranian state TV
that maybe some US ships have been
struck through the Strait of Hormuz or
around that area. This is from Axios. An
official denial from a US official, a
senior US official denying that a US
ship was hit by Iranian missiles. The
headline crossing just moments ago from
a senior US official to Axios denying a
US ship has been hit by Iranian
missiles.
>> And that's why you're seeing the markets
absolutely whipsaw this morning because
we thought there was going to be serious
escalation off this far as headline. I
think what's important to remember is
that we have seen Iranian
semi-official media come out with
headlines similar to this when actually
it was fat it wasn't it wasn't true. It
was false. There was no ship that was
hit. What we see now is that Axios is
saying that they're denying that this
happened. I think one thing is clear for
certain this morning. There's a little
bit of confusion of actually what is
happening in the Strait of Hormuz as the
president says they will guide these
ships through. This is not a naval
escort. This is electronic guiding. At
the same time, the IRGC is coming out
and saying they are going to have even
more control at the center of the Strait
of Hormuz. So it's challenging not only
if you're there at running a ship, but
also if you're in the financial Given
how many conflicting headlines we've
seen, given how many conflicting
headlines we've seen over the last two
months or so, don't trust the temp to
verify seems to be the approach right
now. Equities recovering a little bit.
We're down by only a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. Crude off the highs up by only
4% now. 112 on Brent. Yields a little
bit higher still. That move stays at the
front end of the yield curve, by the
way, up by five basis points on twos.
You can call that 393. I think cuz the
market is also realizing that nothing
has changed. Even the president
yesterday afternoon around 4:30 in the
afternoon said there's going to be this
guiding of escorts. I think a lot of
people viewed that as potentially naval
escorts like we saw the United States
have in the 1980s when it comes to the
Strait of Hormuz. But that is not the
case. So how much longer are some of
these ships going to be just absolutely
locked in the Strait of Hormuz as we go
into the 10th week of this conflict?
>> We'll look to Sansom for that story.
That from Axios just moments ago
according to a US official denying a
ship, a US ship was hit by Iranian
missiles. Any more on that, we'll bring
it to you. Let's talk about Anthropic's
dispute with the Pentagon showing no
signs of easing. The Defense Department
reaching deals with other AI giants
including OpenAI, Amazon, and Nvidia.
Laura Galante, former director at the
Office of the Director of National
Intelligence writing, "This is a real
signal that the US government is serious
about putting AI into the hands of the
people operating our most sensitive
missions." Laura joins us now for more.
Laura, welcome to the program. Can you
set the stage for us? Just how is the
Defense Department integrating some of
these tools?
Thanks, John. So back on Friday, there
was this deal that hit seven of the
major AI companies and then also the
cloud providers. So you see Microsoft
and Amazon, the sort of companies that
have long been behind the cloud
computing and other parts of compute for
the US government. But what this is is a
signal about how you bring AI to the
warfighter into intelligence operations.
This has been going on for a while, but
this deal is the first outward signal
where we see the Pentagon and the
National Security Agencies saying, "This
is core to our ability to counter
threats and defend the nation."
We heard from the Palantir executive who
said that actually the conflict in Iran
right now, will when we look back, will
be the first conflict that really AI was
used writ large. Can you walk us through
how exactly in this conflict AI is being
used?
So AI in a lot of ways is a shorthand
for the modernization of intelligence
missions and military operations. So
when you can use some of the advances
we've seen that the AI companies have,
that the frontier models have, what
you're doing is using a lot of the
capabilities that already existed, say
getting the best intelligence from our
satellites, from other collection means,
and then being able to equip the person
who has to operate, make decisions, and
then use weaponry with data that can
sense the patterns and understand where
the best place to either launch an
operation is or the best sort of fuel to
be able to use that to pinpoint
locations and do targeting. So this is
about enhancing capabilities that
already exist, and that's where you see
the Pentagon really figuring out, "How
do we deploy this in the theater where
they are today?" Whether you agree or
not with what's going on in Iran, this
is what the future of warfare will look
like. When it comes to what we're using
right now, a lot of this is based on
Anthropic. At the same time the DoD is
saying that's a supply chain risk. Who
do you see the DoD working closer with
because of the spat they're having right
now with Anthropic?
So the signal we have here is that the
major AI companies except Anthropic,
right? Google's model and then the model
that OpenAI has are the two that the
Pentagon's talking about. But from a
capability, from a warfighter
standpoint, you want all the models. You
want to be able to have the tools at
your hands to figure out what you do
next. And I think this is limiting to
not be able to have Claude, to not be
able to have Anthropic. The other piece
here is that was the first LLM. It was
the first major model that the different
agencies looked at. So now you have this
this space where operators have to
figure out, "What else is at my
fingertips? I need to be able to look at
these models." And they want to have as
many different tools to play with as
possible. Other parts of the US
government are actually using Anthropic
and we've have seen Anthropic executives
have meetings at the White House. Do you
think at some point there's going to be
an end for this spat between the DoD and
Anthropic?
I do and here's why. The real mission,
the real call of duty at the moment is
to be able to implement AI, modernize
our different intelligence agencies and
the Department of Defense in a way that
can counter what China is doing with
their AI advancements within their
military and intelligence services. So
the game here is China versus the US in
how you bring AI into these national
security domains. And that's going to
override political concerns, I hope,
over time here. And to not use the main
advancements that the US has implemented
within our defense stack would be a real
loss for for America. Where is China
right now stacking up when it comes to
the United States and its AI
capabilities in warfare?
So China has the other, the fourth major
model, right? And what China's been able
to drive towards and President Xi drives
this home and you see it in the way that
they message to their military and to
the rest of their state-owned
enterprises is they need to implement AI
across the different parts of their
economy and military to be effective in
the domains that they want to fight in.
So they're using AI as a forcing
function to be able to modernize and
take the money that they're putting into
their military and really think about
what the next 10 years will look like
for Chinese dominance, not just
regionally but globally. So it's a real
driving force and it's one where they
have an ecosystem of different companies
that are trying to do this well. This
isn't just sort of a closed system.
They're really emphasizing this across
the Chinese
industrial base in a sense and the
contracting companies that help work for
the for the government and military.
Laura, thanks for making time for us.
Laura Galante there of WestExec
Advisors. The Anthropic issue is a
strange one. It's both a supply chain
risk but also being used in the Defense
Department right now.
>> It's being used right now and not just
at the Defense Department. Other
agencies want their hands on it and
actually the Treasury Secretary met with
a bunch of bank CEOs to talk about it
because and they're giving use cases to
some of these departments to use Mythos
because it is so powerful. This is why
you see Suzy Welles having to sit down
with the Anthropic CEO. It's this very
awkward moment and potentially why at
some point this DoD spat is going to get
wrapped up. It has no choice. No choice.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief. Vani Quinn has more.
Hey, Vani. Hey, John. Thank you.
President [music] Donald Trump
suggesting Iran's latest proposal to end
the war may not be enough. Axios
reporting the plan would set a 1-month
deadline to reopen the Strait of Hormuz
and to end the fighting in Iran and in
Lebanon. After that, [music] another
month of discussions could begin on
Iran's nuclear program.
Berkshire Hathaway's cash pile soaring
to its highest ever as operating
earnings jumped in Greg Abel's first
quarter as CEO. Abel also resuming
buybacks giving shareholders a payout
for the first time in more than a year.
A United Airlines flight striking a
light post [music] on the New Jersey
Turnpike before landing safely at Newark
Liberty International. The FAA and NTSB
are investigating the incident. None of
the 221 passengers and 10 crew on board
were injured.
And that is your Bloomberg [music]
Brief, John. Vani, thank you. More from
Vani in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program, durability in the labor
market.
We got initial claims the lowest they've
been since the 1960s. We got government
employment the lowest it's been since
the Second World War. And so so the
bottom line is that it's really strong
data. Up next, we'll catch up with
Aditya Bhave of Bank of America from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Bit of a messy session already this
hour. This hour alone, check out the
chart of S&P 500 futures. Steep drop-off
around 6:00 a.m. Eastern time when we
saw some reports coming from Iranian
media that claimed two missiles had hit
a US warship after that ship had ignored
[music] warnings. This came from Axios
following up about 30 minutes later.
According to a senior US official
denying a US ship was hit by Iranian
missiles. Equity [music] futures
recovering somewhat following that
headline. We're down about a tenth of
1%.
>> 45 minutes to start your Monday [music]
morning, especially given the fact that
yesterday there was hope given the
president said that there was going to
be escorts guided [music] through at
least electronically through the Strait
of Hormuz, not naval escorts but
electronic escorts. Now you have Fars
saying that [music] there were two
missiles hit a US warship. A US official
telling Axios that's not true. Maybe
what this goes to show though is that it
is [music] still not safe in the Strait
of Hormuz for ships to be passing when
you see headlines like this back and
forth.
>> Can just run you through the price
action just a little bit more. Brent
crude still higher by a little more than
3% just short of 112 now on Brent. We
were around 114 off the back of the
initial speculation. WTI at around 105.
With that move, yields [music] still
elevated at the front end of the curve
up by four basis points. Twos at 392.
Let's talk about the labor market. A big
week ahead with payrolls on Friday.
Under Savannah's this morning,
durability
>> [music]
>> in the labor market.
We got initial claims the lowest they've
been since the 1960s. We got government
employment the lowest it's been since
the Second World War. We've got all
these positive movements in terms of
fiscal responsibility and economic
growth moving forward. And so then but
we do have this temporary disruption
with energy market. And so so the bottom
line is that it's really strong data.
The payrolls report due out on Friday.
Economists expecting to see 65,000 jobs
added. Ahead of that report, a busy week
of Fed speak. Bloomberg's and the
current join us now from Washington for
more. And uh what are we looking for uh
a little bit later this week?
Well, on the jobs front, John, we're
expecting strong data like you say.
Economists expecting plus 60,000 odd
jobs created in the month, but not just
that. Wages are expected to have
accelerated. And the participation rate
is expected to have increased. And
unemployment holding steady. Now, if
those numbers come through and you
combine those with the private high
frequency readings around jolts and the
unemployment claims and the likes, it
will certainly just cement the idea that
the labor market is not just
stabilizing, but seems to be in a fairly
solid spot. despite the whole story
going on with the energy and and
inflation markets. And of course, on the
inflation front, we have a whole bevy of
Fed officials who are going to speak
this week. Uh so, on the one hand, we're
going to get a very important update on
the jobs front. And on the other hand,
we're going to hear from a lot of Fed
officials in terms of what they're
thinking now about inflation versus
employment.
>> And we've heard from the dissenters
already. The dissenters to the language
in the statement. What's the epicenter?
What is the epicenter of their argument
for Chairman Powell?
The gist of what those three officials
are saying that these were the regional
Fed presidents, Kashkari, uh Hammack,
and Logan, who came out on Friday, John,
as you know, with their statements.
They're basically saying, "Look, we are
now more worried about inflation than
the employment market." And they don't
want the Fed to be sig- signaling
anymore that the next move could be an
easing. That's the gist of where they
are from. Now, we don't yet know, of
course, how many others are broadly
moving towards that camp. We have uh New
York Fed President John Williams today.
We have Austin Gouldsbee this week. We
have Governors Waller and Barr and
Bowman here from DC, all speaking this
week. And uh again, it's going to be
very important week to hear what signal
are they sending now on where inflation
is at, given that we're expecting
somewhat of a a jobs a strong jobs
report on Friday. And remember, John,
this is laying the this is setting the
table ahead of the new Fed chair, Kevin
Warsh, who's due to be confirmed over
com- coming weeks coming in, where he'll
be facing a policy making committee
signaling that they might be signaling
they're more worried about inflation
than jobs. And that certainly hasn't
been the message he's been sending in
the run-up to getting the job. And uh
appreciate the update. Thank you, sir.
And uh Karan there, down in Washington,
DC. It's your preferred bank for America
calling for 80,000 jobs added in April.
And the unemployment rates remain
unchanged. Ed joins us now for more. Ed,
it's good to see you. Good morning.
Thanks for having
>> and undeterred by what's happening in
the Middle East?
So, the job market seems to be
undeterred so far. You look at the
signal from ADP. We don't put a ton of
weight on ADP, but it is worth noting
that the last few weeks of data have
been really, really strong. And then you
look at jobless claims as well. They've
been very, very benign, down
meaningfully in the last week. So, there
isn't really any sign of the labor
market cracking right now. It's hurting
confidence. Is it hurting consumption?
Do you see any signs of that at all? So,
we've had this issue for 5 years now,
where consumer confidence has basically
just disconnected from consumer
spending. We did actually have a few
months of weak spending before
So, from November through Jan. And
initially, it looked like Feb was soft
as well. Now, Feb got revised up. March
looks good. And what we're seeing in our
internal card data, because we have
these data through late April, is that
spending, even ex of gas, has held up
rather well. I saw a note from you in
the last week on airlines.
Early days, but what are you seeing? Are
you seeing a break or change?
That's an interesting one. Airport
traffic has slowed down a bit. There's
probably a few reasons for that. There
may be some concerns around TSA-related
disruptions. The news reports of very
long lines. It could be related to
higher airfares as well, because
typically people book 6 weeks in advance
of travel. So, to the extent that the
Iran war started to affect things, you
would have seen it in mid-April. But it
also could be the issue with Spirit
Airlines. It could be just
cancellations. What about the fact that
a lot of people were saying that the
bigger than expected tax credits has
basically helped people get along when
it comes to higher energy prices, like a
band-aid? That can't last forever,
though. It can't last forever. So, our
estimate is that tax refunds are up
about 45 to 50 billion dollars. This is
just based from the Treasury's daily
data relative to last year. And we're
ballparking the impact of higher gas
prices at a little over 20 billion
dollars as of the latest data. So, it's
offsetting about half of the increase in
tax refunds, but I'm sure that tax
refunds have been one of the
contributors to higher spending growth
in March and April.
>> When you look at average gasoline prices
today, we're at $4.45, almost $4.50 a
gallon. We're getting close to $5 a
gallon, which for Americans
psychologically is a big impact. Is
there a line in the sand where this
really starts to hit American consumers?
Right. So, what we've heard from some of
our equity analysts is that up to $4,
when you move from three to four, people
feel uncomfortable, but they don't
really change their spending habits.
Once you get above $4 a gallon, that's
where you really start to see changes in
consumer behavior. So, I think the
question is, as folks move away from
gas-related spending, so maybe they're
flying less, maybe they're driving less,
will they replace that with other forms
of discretionary spending? Will they eat
out more? Or will they just spend less
in aggregate? Because if you look at
labor income growth, that hasn't really
slowed down. We mentioned the tax
refunds earlier. So, the money for now
is just about still there to spend.
You've got the Fed done for the year,
right? No cuts. We have a couple of
cuts. It's premised on the idea that the
Fed chair typically gets what they want.
And
>> Warsh gets what he wants? Just about,
right? So, so I think that that that
view is being challenged in real time by
the recent data flow. I'll be entirely
honest about that.
>> Yeah. Couple things. One is the data,
the PCE inflation data have really
picked up, not just headline, but also
core 3.2%. We could easily head towards
3.3% in April. So, it's getting quite
uncomfortable. You're overshooting your
inflation target even ex of tariffs by
at least 50 basis points, while the
unemployment rate is only about 10 basis
points above where they think the
natural rate is. So, that's that's the
challenge. How far can you push this
argument of the chair always gets what
they want. But the other thing is,
listen to the doves. Don't listen to the
hawks. Listen to Mary Daly, who a couple
weeks before the Fed meeting really
sounded like she doesn't want to cut
this year. Waller, I think he probably
still wants to cut, but he's saying
later and less. And I think Waller's
vote is absolutely crucial. Without
that, it's very, very difficult for
Kevin Warsh to get seven votes to cut
rates.
>> have you have Neel Kashkari saying
potentially you have to hike. Is that
just to anchor inflation expectations?
>> I think that's definitely part of it.
There's a view amongst the hawks that
you want to keep your options open. And
that's a very reasonable argument to
make. As even Powell said, he's a dove,
but going back to the idea that you're
overshooting on inflation more than
you're missing on the unemployment rate.
>> He went one step further, Neel Kashkari.
He said we need a tightening of
financial conditions somewhat, his
words. This could tighten financial
conditions somewhat today, pushing back
against the high inflation scenario that
could require an even stronger monetary
policy response in the future. That's
the argument from the Minneapolis Fed
President.
>> And you think that if a new Fed chair
comes in, gets what he wants? Wasn't it
this new Fed chair coming in that said
inflation is a choice? What kind of
choice does he want to make in
inflation?
>> Get the PCE index for inflation,
apparently, Ed Yardeni. So, so
Kashkari's argument goes back to
something that we've been highlighting,
which is the K-shaped nature of consumer
spending. What is driving the consumer
right now? Labor income hasn't fallen
off a cliff, but it's somewhat soft.
It's the strength of the equity market
that is really anchoring higher income
spending. So, that could be related to
the argument that he's making, that if
you tighten financial conditions, maybe
you can slow down higher income
spending, which you need to slow down
inflation, perhaps. Interesting point.
Ed Yardeni, good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Ed Yardeni there of Bank of
America. Equity futures on the S&P
recovering, but down by about a tenth of
1% on the S&P 500. Crude still somewhat
elevated. Brent and WTI, Brent at around
112, up on the session by 3.6%.
>> [music]
>> In the next hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance, we'll catch up with Ross
Mayfield of Baird, Henrietta Treyz of
Verity Partners, Susan Bell of Rystad
Energy, and the former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley, the second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance, just around
the corner.
Consumers are only going to be able to
pay higher prices for so long. Whether
they feel poorly or not, they continue
to spend. I don't think the Fed's going
to move to hiking if inflation sort of
ends up in a good position. It's hard to
argue against the idea of lowering the
bar to hike.
>> Nobody's thinking a recession is
imminent. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your price action looks like this.
Equity futures [music]
negative by a tenth of 1% off session
lows on the S&P 500. In the commodity
market, Brent WTI elevated, but off
session highs. 112 on Brent, 105 on WTI.
In the bond market, yields higher at the
front end of the curve, up by four on
twos. Your two-year 392, up by four on
[music] tens. 440, and just short of the
highs of the year on a ten-year
maturity. On thirties, just short of 5%.
498.
Already a pretty interesting morning so
far. If you missed the last 60 minutes
of price action, [music] initially
stocks down off the back of a report
from an Iranian news agency suggesting
that two missiles had hit a US warship
after ignoring warnings. This came from
Axios [music]
that a senior US official has denied all
of that, denying a US ship was hit by
Iranian missiles.
>> So, honestly, Jonathan, another Monday
morning where we're starting with a
[music] lot of confusion of what is
actually going on with this conflict. If
we can go into the realm of speculation
[music] for a moment, if a US warship
was hit, you would have seen immediate
fire back [music] in return from the
United States. Second, we do have the
President of the United States yesterday
say that they are going to guide [music]
ships through. Now, this is not naval
escorts, according to a report from the
Wall Street Journal, but this does seem
like electric guidance. But, what
happened yesterday when the market
opened? Immediately, we saw crude take a
fall. Could this just be the Iranians
wanting to play the market just [music]
as much as many speculate this
administration does?
>> we've got the initial headline from
Axios, and now we have it on the record
from US Central Command. They claimed
that Iranian state media claimed that
Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
hit a US warship with two missiles.
[music] The truth, no US Navy ships have
been struck. US forces are supporting
Project Freedom and enforcing the naval
blockade on Iranian ports.
>> What isn't clear though if a missile
[music] was actually at least launched,
came close to a US warship. That we do
not know. I think one conclusion you can
make right now [music] is that there is
still a lot of confusion amongst vessels
on if it is safe or not [music] to go
through the Strait of We also heard from
Iranian state media today that they are
going to have a new more secure zone
that IRGC when it comes [music] to the
Strait of Hormuz. They want to maintain
that control just as much as the US
wants to maintain the blockade.
Precisely that point.
All the volatility is super, super
[music] confusing. What's the one
constant? The blockade continues. The
energy isn't flowing in the same way.
What's the one constant? The [music]
president seems comfortable to continue
to the blockade with no real change over
the [music] weekend.
>> Right, this impasse is continuing. The
Treasury Secretary said yesterday that
the the Iranian oil industry is
basically on the brink, and we can
[music] see shutdowns as soon as next
week. The issue is we heard this before
from this administration. [music]
Two weeks ago, the Treasury Secretary
said we were just days from these
shutdowns. We do see an economic [music]
really consequences hitting across the
economy in Iran. They're starting to put
some oil on rail to go to China. So,
they obviously are trying to find ways
to store [music] some of this energy and
get it out, but it might be more than
just happening [music] next week. It
might take weeks, and also, it could
take months.
>> Equity futures this morning negative by
just 0.1% on the S&P. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Russ Mayfield
of Baird as equities pull back from
fresh all-time highs. Henrietta Treyz of
Vedder Partners as Spirit Airlines
collapses,
>> [music]
>> and the former New York Fed President
Bill Dudley on Kevin Walsh's case for
lowering rates. We begin this hour with
stocks turning lower on renewed tensions
in the Middle East. Russ Mayfield of
Baird writes in the US blockade is
working, but will take time to force
Iran's hand. The question is does the
market hold up in the face of this risk?
Russ joins us now for more. Russ, good
morning, sir. Answer your own question.
Do you think it does hold up?
I think the risk is that the
administration takes the market at
all-time highs as a vote of confidence
in a longer
you know, standoff, this blockade being
the main way that that goes about. And
that if it goes for, you know, another
month,
there will be economic ramifications in
the second half of the year that are
hard to see right now. So, I think it
can hold up if we're a week away. I
think if we're talking weeks or months,
it's a much bigger question for an
economy that's already, you know, fairly
narrow and being propped up in a lot of
ways by AI spend and not the strength of
the consumer,
which is obviously had some trouble in
the face of
>> Well, Russ, let's stay debate right now.
Economic ramifications, so we see the
consequences in nature. They're on the
horizon, if not the reality right now on
the ground in Europe. For the US, the US
has got a lot going for it right now.
$700 billion of capex coming from just a
handful of companies, more than that if
you include others. The rate cuts
already in the pipeline from the end of
last year, the tax refunds hitting bank
accounts already at the moment coming
into this quarter. Can this stand up to
the risk elsewhere?
It can. I mean, I I think it's the main
reason,
along with corporate earnings, which
have been robust, that the market is
back at all-time highs despite what is
still clearly a very live war in the
Middle East and despite oil that has now
been over $100 barrel, both Brent and
WTI for a lot of the last 2 months. So,
there there is a lot working for the
economy,
but there are two things that the
economy can't stand up in the face of,
which is higher for longer oil or really
higher for longer rates. If we continue
down this path, we run the risk of a
little bit of both if we put the Fed in
such a bind because of higher oil
prices.
>> Well, let's go with the rate story. So,
we're up four basis points at the front
end of the curve on twos today at around
392. Not far off the highs of the year
at the front end. On tens, we're
basically there. Likewise on 30s. Russ,
what does a 5% 30-year, 440 10-year,
let's call it 4% 2-year due to equities?
We've seen over this bull market, you
know, particularly the 10-year, when it
pushes past 450 and starts to move
towards five, that's really the like red
zone for risk on equities. You know, the
the the 30, I think the market cares a
little bit less about, but that 450 on
the 10-year is a really key level. So,
obviously, market watchers and investors
will be will be all eyes on that for the
next couple of weeks here. You know, on
the front end of the curve, I think it's
it's representative of a Fed that is
going to have its hand forced, and I
don't think we're talking hikes yet,
but certainly it would be surprising to
see a cut in particular following the
dissents from a handful of governors
last week. When you say it has its hands
forced, that basically just mean you
think the Fed is on hold for the rest of
the year?
Yes, I think so. I think it would be
really hard, even if Warsh makes a
convincing AI productivity case, to
build consensus to get a rate cut unless
we're talking about maybe a rate cut in
December if we can get past Iran, you
know, in in a timely order. But, yeah, I
I think a base case should be a hold for
the remainder of the year. Russ, if
you're watching the market, what would
it take for the Fed you think to have to
actually hike?
I it's core inflation, right? So, I
think the Fed is rightfully saying the
right things about looking through an
energy shock, but we've also seen some
pressure in core services inflation. We
know the labor market it is really tight
in terms of, you know, we're not adding
jobs, the labor force is probably even
shrinking. So, if you started to see
wage pressure, if you started to see
housing and rents bottom and turn back
up, then the Fed is forced to reconsider
where we're at. The problem is the labor
market doesn't look strong enough to
stomach many hikes. So, we'll keep an
eye on core services inflation, but I
think the Fed is again kind of caught
between a rock and a hard place here,
which maybe makes their job easier in
some ways.
>> Russ, what kind of Federal Reserve do
you think that Kevin Warsh is inheriting
when he steps into the big seat in June?
Obviously, very split Fed. I mean, we we
haven't seen so many dissents in a
couple of decades at least. I think it's
going to be really hard to build
consensus towards a view that AI
productivity merits rate cuts. Now, I
think you might get a little bit more
consensus on winding down the balance
sheet a little bit, maybe on some of the
banking regulation issues that the Fed
has a hand in, but I think it's going to
be really hard to build consensus even
if the economic argument is sound
because of all of the other noise from
Iran, from the labor market, and from
what AI might do to jobs.
>> We've had plenty of noise already this
morning. Russ, appreciate your time.
Thank you, sir. Russ Mayfield of Baird
between 6 and 7 tons of noise shaking up
this market. On Kevin Warsh, the case
for cutting interest rates, Bill Dudley,
the former New York Fed President,
doesn't think there is a case to cut
interest rates this year under Kevin
Warsh. We'll catch up with Bill a little
bit later. I do think his piece begs
another question though. If there isn't
a case for interest rate reductions
later this year, then why is there still
an easing bias under Chairman Powell at
the current Fed? Right, there has been
an easing That's a great question. There
has been easing bias, and guess what?
Jay Powell is sticking around, and I
know this is probably is annoying the
administration. The Treasury Secretary
said yesterday he thinks it's only going
to be for a short period of time, but
you have to remember, this is an
individual who also has a dovish slant.
So, maybe at the end of the day, could
actually help Kevin Warsh if he was
trying to, you know, get the cats
together to finally agree on an interest
rate
>> seen the pushback, the dissents to the
language in the statement. We had some
details around those dissents going into
the weekend from Beth Hammack of
Cleveland. I see this clear easing bias
is no longer appropriate. From the
Dallas Fed President Lorie Logan, it
could plausibly be appropriate the
FOMC's next rate change to be either an
increase or a cut. Echoed by Neel
Kashkari of Minneapolis, the FOMC should
offer a policy outlook that signals that
the next rate change could be either a
cut or a hike. Do they find some company
in the next month? Governor Waller later
this week, that's the speech to watch.
>> Everyone is looking at Governor Waller
cuz remember, he is the one that
actually potentially be the individual
that convinces the committee if they
were going to take that next step and
actually have another interest rate
reduction this year. The interesting
thing, Jonathan, though, is a lot of
this depends on when this conflict wraps
up, and right now what we're seeing is
that the impasse just continues. And the
volatility in markets continues as well.
Equities dropped away around 6:00
Eastern time off the back of this report
from an Iranian news agency suggesting
claiming that two missiles had hit a US
warship after ignoring warnings, and
then we've had the official denial from
the US just moments ago shaking up this
equity market in more ways than one in
the last 60 minutes or so. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Vani
Khana has more. Hey, Vani. Hey, John.
Thank you. As we've been saying, the US
is denying claims from Iranian state
media that an American warship was hit
by missiles. Iran had claimed two
missiles had struck a US vessel. US
[music] CENTCOM posting on X that naval
forces are supporting Project Freedom
and enforcing the naval blockade on
Iranian ports.
US Attorney for the District of
Columbia, Janine Pirro, says she may
reopen a criminal investigation into Fed
Chair Jerome Powell depending on the
results of an Inspector General's probe.
Pirro dropped an inquiry into Powell
last month after a federal judge blocked
her grand jury subpoenas.
Shares of Norwegian cruise liner trading
lower in the premarket after reporting
first quarter earnings that missed
estimates. [music] The cruise liner also
cutting its full year EPS outlook,
signaling it's on track to be the cruise
operator most impacted [music] by the
Iran war.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Evonne, thank you. More from Evonne in
about 30 minutes time. And next on the
program, a failed bailout attempt.
Spirit Airlines ceased operations. So,
if you have a flight scheduled with
Spirit Airlines,
don't show up at the airport. There will
be no one uh here to assist you. Up
next, we'll catch up with Henrietta
Treyz of Fain DeFain Partners, live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
So, here's the state of things, a lot
calmer now than they were about 60
minutes ago. We're down by 0.15% on the
S&P 500. Nasdaq, we're totally
unchanged. [music] And the Russell down
by third. The Russell small caps at one
point an hour ago down by close to 1%
with this move in crude. Crude off the
highs, still up by 3%. Brent 111, was
close to 114. WTI around 105. With that
move in crude, yields pushing higher
across the curve. Two's down by four
basis points three 92. The Iranian state
media reporting about an hour 15 minutes
ago that a US ship was hit by Iranian
missiles after ignoring warnings. We've
had the official denial from the US side
that that ever took place [music]
about 15 minutes ago. CENTCOM is saying
that did not happen. What I find
interesting is that you do have also the
Joint Maritime Information Center coming
out [music] talking about enhanced
security zone being established by the
United States to support transit. At the
same time, Iranian media is saying that
they are announcing a new control zone
in the Strait [music] of Hormuz. So,
which is it? When it comes to this
potential control zone or enhanced
security area, who actually has control
right now?
>> [music]
>> We understand the US blockade is
working, but does the United States
really have control and are able to
guide electronically ships out of the
Strait of Hormuz? The next few days are
going to be critical to see if that's
[music] working.
>> We'll stay on top of that story for you.
Equity futures so far this morning
negative by just 0.1%
and well off session lows. [music] Under
Sevadas this morning, a failed bailout
attempt.
Spirit Airlines ceased operations. So,
if you have a flight scheduled with
Spirit Airlines,
don't show up at the airport. There will
be no one uh here to assist you. Now,
you've heard that other airlines have
talked about uh requesting a $2.5
billion bailout. I would say that at
this point, I don't think it's it's
necessary. If they want to come to the
US government, uh we would be a lender
of last resort. So, here's the latest
this morning. Spirit abruptly shutting
down following a surge in fuel prices
and a failed government bailout. For the
latest, Tyler Kendall has the latest
from Washington. Morning, Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, a person
familiar with the matter tells us that
it became clear to the White House last
Thursday that a deal couldn't get done.
The US government had been considering a
$500 million bailout in exchange for
warrants to purchase up to a 90% stake
in the company once it emerged from
bankruptcy. But the US transportation
secretary, Sean Duffy, there went on to
say that at the end of the day, it was a
creditor issue. As the Wall Street
Journal reports that a group of key
bondholders felt that they would be
better off with Spirit liquidating
rather than agreeing to the government's
terms. President Trump repeatedly said
that he was interested in trying to help
save the company in a bid to save jobs.
In fact, we had reported last month that
the administration was even considering
invoking the Defense Production Act in
an emergency effort to keep the company
afloat. This tracks with perhaps the
more hands-on industrial policy from
this White House considering the US
Commerce Secretary, Howard Lutnick, was
the one leading these negotiations. Of
course, the leading voice in that US
government deal that we saw last year
with Intel. But John, as you well know,
this company had been struggling for
years, but its issues were really
compounded by the fact that we are
seeing this surge in fuel prices due to
the closure in the Strait of Hormuz. And
the transportation secretary alluded to
it there. We heard from the Association
of Value Airlines, which represents
other low-cost carriers. They're asking
this government for $2.5 billion in
assistance, but so far the
administration has said that's not going
to happen. Tyler Kendall with the latest
from Washington. Tyler, thank you. Let's
go through some simple questions. Could
this airline stand alone? No. Would a
combination with JetBlue have made
things different? We'll never know. But
the market offered a potential solution
to all of this about a year ago, and it
was blocked on the grounds that it would
reduce competition. What have we ended
up with a year later? Less competition.
Less competition and also less jobs. The
number of jobs now that are going to be
lost because Spirit is obviously
bankrupt, and they're no longer flying.
A number of planes also that are just
left now um and routes that are not
being flown at all. And individuals
flocking and potentially having to pay
double the fare or higher prices to get
a flight. The other issue, of course, is
if you take the flip side, say this
merger did go through, and Spirit was
really, really bad, which we know they
are. Could that mean that the bigger
JetBlue Spirit also be in a position
much worse today than they would have
been had they not brought on Spirit?
Senator Warren is attempting to deflect
blame. Of course, she was part of the
big push to block this combination under
President Biden saying that Donald
Trump's war with Iran caused the
sky-high fuel prices that finally did
Spirit Airlines in.
I'm not sure it was just the fuel prices
that did Spirit Airlines in. Remember,
Spirit Airlines already filed for
bankruptcy twice. They filed for
bankruptcy twice this company. So, I'm
not sure it's really the jet fuel,
especially given the jet fuel issues
really at this moment hitting Europe
more so than it's hitting the United
States.
>> John Gus NATO discuss with Henrietta
Treyz of Fain DeFain Partners.
Henrietta, welcome to the program. Do we
need to rethink in Washington about the
kind of deals that make sense and the
ones that don't?
Actually, I had a really amazing weekend
up in Canada with members of parliament
and trade teams and the business
councils up there. And one of the things
that they're most focused on is
understanding what Mark Carney is going
to do on the sovereign wealth fund and
what Canada is going to invest in. You
know, they're talking about defense,
they're talking about industrial
manufacturing. And it begs the question,
what is the United States going to
invest in? We obviously have seen the
president try to invest in Intel, and
he's taken a very hands-on approach as
Tyler just walked through. But they made
the judgment that Spirit Airlines wasn't
going to be one of those pieces that
goes into what the United States decides
to permanently invest in. And we've seen
how those play out from an auto bailout
to the farm bailouts,
bank bailouts. You know, we we can get
into the weeds. And I I think the other
dynamic here is that obviously Spirit's
had issues for years. That's not up for
debate. But when you put 84% increases
in a very tight margin industry on their
main cost of fuel, that's the end of the
story. So, calling attention to that for
whatever the duration of this war is
going to be, and having sort of the
first American casualty of the war and
the higher jet fuel prices is probably a
bad look for the administration. So,
that combo makes a lot of sense to me.
Uh Henrietta, do you think now given I
mean, me and Jonathan were just talking
about fact that there was potentially an
off-ramp for Spirit when it comes to
JetBlue and the Biden administration
blocked it. Do you think potentially now
members of Congress would get on board
if we were to see more consolidation in
this space?
Um I think it's a lot to ask of members
of Congress to get on board to do
anything. These guys are barely
functioning right now. As you saw, the
House went on recess instead of staying
in session. Um they are just coasting on
their own jet fumes to get to the
midterms. So, I don't think a bailout or
even an organized, coordinated approach,
unless the war really does collapse
whole industries, kind of like what the
airlines are alluding to and what the
whispers all are. I don't see Congress
wanting to weigh in here. It paints a
bad picture for the administration, and
that's not what Republicans want to
provide to the president going into this
midterm cycle. So, I think they'd
probably just stay away. But uh
Henrietta, are you saying that members
of Congress actually think Spirit
collapsed because the war in Iran?
Because they've been struggling for
years and in August filed for Chapter
11. Right. No, I think it's a
combination of both. I mean, the
problems have persisted for years. They
didn't think it was worth it to bail it
out. But I mean, 84% increases in jet
fuel is going to do it for you. So,
whether it's the entire story is not
correct, but it is obviously the straw
that broke the camel's back. And there's
there's no restraint from Congress on
the president to wind down the war. And
I think that needs to be really uh you
know, internalized that there is not uh
material pressure on the president to
end the war immediately. A lot of
Republicans would say, "Don't waste this
crisis. We're here now. Let's see what
happens. It's worth it." And if they
wrapped around their hands around the
idea that, you know, avoiding an IRGC
with a nuclear weapon is worth the price
of Spirit Airlines, so be it. I think
that is what a lot of members would say
right now. Well, if this is the case and
it's higher fuel costs, what do you
think the Department of Transportation
should be doing right now with other
budget airlines?
I mean, hopefully preemptively getting
them to avoid going into this kind of
dire, last-minute situation where you
can point to, you know, a Thursday like
last week and say that was the
make-or-break point. If you want to get
out in front of it, you really need to
create something. Throw it in the farm
bill, you know, throw it in uh
forthcoming CR. Give assurances behind
the scenes. Let Treasury kind of work
something out so that they can get some
sort of swap line in through there.
Those are all options that we've seen
either through the pandemic or through
the great recession that are available
to these agencies. They just have to
want to do it. And I imagine that there
are teams at Treasury working on that
right now. Henrietta, when did we become
so scared of markets? When did this
start? How many decades ago?
Uh, like just free markets, you mean?
Precisely.
I well, I mean, I think that the federal
government decides to step in a lot. I
mean, I am not really that old, but I've
already seen bailouts of
so many sectors like the auto bailout. I
mean, at one point there was a request
to bail out golf clubs during the great
recession. You know, there bank
bailouts, there are farmers bailouts.
We're on our fourth farmers bailout in
the Trump's term
for this the two terms that he sat so
far number four and we're asking for a
fifth. I mean,
we do intervene a lot. Henrietta,
appreciate it. Henrietta Treyse there,
the fight at Panos down in Washington
D.C. I see a lot of politicians raging
against capitalism all the time. I'd
like them to identify what do they think
is capitalistic about the current
environment? You mean taking equity
stakes?
>> want to process a creative destruction.
I know it's brutal, it's painful
particularly for the wrong end of it.
But also the market, the free market did
provide a solution in the last year and
the government blocked it. And I know
everyone wants to move on from that
because we've had an energy shock. I
haven't seen Ryanair go under in Europe
off the back of this energy shock. I
think we've got to talk about yes, this
was a business model was struggling to
stand up on its own before this energy
shock, but the market offered a solution
and the government blocked it.
>> Right. Or easyJet or Wizz Air a number
of these European airlines which
actually Europe is being hit hardest
when it comes to jet fuel and the
commission actually is going to put out
tactics some of these airlines can use
in the next few weeks and months given
the fact that the situation in Europe is
so much worse. But to your point, there
was a solution to this. Spirit has been
in trouble for years and JetBlue was
willing to take on that problem and the
Biden administration blocked it. Now,
what we do not know though is that would
that have been beneficial or potentially
would it leave JetBlue today in a worse
condition because they would have taken
on this massive problem. The fact of the
day will continue now down in Washington
D.C. For the here and now, equities
recovering well off session lows. We're
down by just a tenth of 1% on the S&P
500. Energy elevated still in triple
digits on both WTI and Brent crude. The
last 90 minutes in financial markets.
This is why people are so exhausted. You
see headlines from Iranian media
suggesting a US ship has been struck in
the Middle East and then you're getting
official denial from the US and still
some of the move actually holds this
morning. Still in the bond market, too.
>> Well, the move holds because there's a
lot of confusion and there's really this
still this impasse and there's no
agreement about actually guiding ships
through the Strait of Hormuz. We haven't
seen the president's directive actually
[music]
take shape right now and that's why you
have this confusion. That's why some
people just want to stay on the
sidelines. Up next on the program, we'll
talk about energy. We'll catch up with
Susan Bell of Rystad Energy with oil
rising on reports of heightened tensions
in the Middle [music] East.
Back to back gains on the S&P 500 coming
into Monday at all time highs five week
winning streak the longest winning
streak on a weekly basis going back to
October 2024. Equities [music] this
morning negative 5.16% on the S&P 500 on
the Nasdaq 100 just about unchanged. In
the commodity market, what a ride
already this morning. Brent
>> [music]
>> at about 111 call it 112 still elevated
this morning up by some 3%. Rumor,
speculation, a report from state media
in Iran suggesting US ships have been
struck then denial from the US
officials.
>> Yes, CENTCOM saying that's not true.
What we don't know is whether or not
potentially there was a missile that was
fired or drone and it came close. We
need more information. But what is
actually going on in the Strait of
Hormuz and that is why potentially you
see oil prices still elevated. That
anxiety still lives on [music] because
it is unclear if any ships are going to
be getting out given what the president
said yesterday is Truth Social post that
they would be quote [music] guiding
ships through. You know, immediately
everyone thought this meant maybe naval
escorts. But not, it's electric guiding.
And how many ships can you actually get
through with that especially when the
IRGC says says they actually have a new
control zone and they are controlling
it.
>> Yeah, language matters. Guiding is
different to escorting.
That language really [music] matters.
The difference between guiding and
escorting. Let's turn to the bond
market. This move in crude pushes into
fixed income. [music] Yields up across
the curve. Two's at 3.92. 10's near the
highs of the year 4.41 and 30's just
short of 5%. Yields up at the long end
by some three basis points.
>> How much can these higher yields [music]
continue without biting into the equity
market? It's going to be another very
busy week Jonathan as we try to digest
all that is going on with the conflict,
but also as you mentioned earlier, it's
a huge week for economic data when you
have jobs data on Friday.
>> And Treasury refunding I think on
[music] Wednesday. Looking forward to
that a few days time, too. Bramo is
going to be back tomorrow morning.
She'll give you a preview of what to
expect. Let's get you some single name
action, some market movers. Yohai Raaas
more. Hi Yohai Raa. Hi John. We start
with the big corporate story of the
morning. We are seeing shares of eBay
rising 8% [music]
in the premarket as as eBay makes a bold
bet trying to buy the e-commerce company
[music] for 56 billion dollars. eBay is
about four times the size of GameStop.
So that's why it's say it's a bold move,
[music] but it's clearly a move by the
company to try and fast track its
transformation as its core [music]
retail business of selling video games
continues to shrink. Turning to an
earnings story, Norwegian Cruise Line
Holding shares are down 6.7%
in the premarket after it cut its full
year outlook. The company now guiding
for its first [music] uh, profit annual
profit drop since the pandemic. It has
been the biggest hit among its
competitors
>> [music]
>> um, of course due to higher fuel costs
tied to the war, but also Norwegian
saying this that they're seeing
consumers pull back on travel especially
[music]
um, when it comes to travel to Europe.
And we end on Coinbase. Those [music]
shares are rising 2 and 1/2% in the
premarket after the company said it
[music] has reached a deal when it comes
to stablecoin rewards which could clear
a path for the Clarity Act [music] to
move forward. Remember this is a major
piece of crypto legislation and those
rewards have been a key sticking point
with [music] banks pushing back due to
worries about competition for deposits.
John. Yohai thank you. More from Yohai
Raa in the next [music] hour. On a right
down this morning, Spirit Airlines
shutting down following failed bailout
talks with the White House. Rivals
including United and American launching
price capped rescue fares to help
stranded passengers. Elsewhere, GameStop
making a 56 billion dollar unsolicited
bid for eBay a 20% premium to Friday's
close. GameStop CEO saying he plans to
turn the online marketplace into an
Amazon rival. And finally, President
Donald Trump announcing a plan to help
guide ships through the Strait of Hormuz
describing it as a quote humanitarian
gesture. Tehran warning it will attack
any US forces that enter the waterway.
So this was an important Truth Social
post from the President of the United
States and I think the market took it in
kind and immediately you saw at 6:00
p.m. last night
equities uh,
were rising futures and then when it
comes to crude, you saw a precipitous
drop. The issue of course then was the
Wall Street Journal clarifying that this
was not to your point this between guide
and escort. This was not a naval guide
naval escort. This was basically
electronic guide. What is interesting is
that you do have from the Maritime Joint
Maritime Association United States
basically saying that they are going to
have this essential zone through the
Strait of Hormuz potentially to guide
those ships, but the IRGC is coming out
and say they have a new control zone
through the Strait of Hormuz. And that
is why there's anxiety in the market
still. Not just what Fars was saying
that they hit a US warship, CENTCOM
saying they did it. There's anxiety in
the market because there's no clarity on
exactly what is going on in the Strait
of Hormuz and who is actually
controlling
>> build on that story. Let's go through
that story just briefly. So Iranian
state media said they hit a US ship.
The US is saying on the record officials
are saying no ship has been hit. What
we're trying to work out is whether any
missiles were actually fired, whether
there was a skirmish earlier on this
morning in that region.
>> Right. And I look at the CENTCOM tweet
and I understand that this is probably
definitely true from CENTCOM. Cuz if a
US warship was hit, do you know what the
fire back would be on the Iranians? It
would be so obvious that open source
would be able to pick this up. But to
your point, is there something that
happened in the middle? Was there any
sort of skirmish? Are the Iranians out
there with these speedboats with drones?
Are they trying to attack US forces as
the president is trying to guide some
ships out in a humanitarian effort? The
next few days are going to be critical
to understand if any of this is
effective.
>> all looking for additional clarity.
We're up by 3% on Brent 111 just short
of 112. WTI at 105 and up by 3% on that
contract as well. The Treasury Secretary
Steven Mnuchin saying the US pressure
campaign on Iran could push its leaders
to surrender.
Their oil infrastructure is starting to
creak. They are rapidly filling up
filling up storage and as that happens
they're going to have to start shutting
in wells which we think could be in the
next week. I can tell you that
we we are suffocating the regime. This
is a real economic blockade. Joining us
now to discuss is Susan Bell of Rystad
Energy. Susan, welcome to the program.
Steven Mnuchin the Treasury Secretary
his words in the next week Iran may have
to start shutting oil wells. Do you
agree?
Yes, absolutely. Um, that aligns with
our assessment that that are running out
of containment. Mhm.
Do you think that kind of blockade and
the fact that they would be breaching
storage capacity, which might compromise
their wells, would bring them to the
table?
I think it does, actually. I And as a
matter of fact, you know, they they uh
they have been issuing proposals um at a
fairly rapid pace. I mean, the last one
I think came out on Saturday, perhaps
Sunday, where they uh returned a
14-point proposal back to the US. Um the
two key sticking points remain uh
uh uranium enrichment and control of the
Strait of Hormuz. Susan, when it comes
to shut-ins, this is potentially
interesting because 2 weeks ago the
Treasury Secretary said it was a matter
of days. Now he's saying it's next week.
What we see the Iranians do is bringing
out very, very old vessels to try to
just store crude on the water. We see
them putting crude on rail to get to
China. Don't they have other means
potentially make this process a lot
harder and longer?
Um
it's possible. I mean, there is also
news of them using some old abandoned
tanks to store oil. They could even use
above-ground sumps if it if it gets
really dire. Um and when I say
above-ground sumps, what I really mean
is, you know, ditches in the ground
where you uh you just store the oil um
uh on uh you know, in the ground. Um
it's it's possible, but uh it's
certainly not ideal either from an
environmental perspective or from the
you know, the quality control of the
oil. Um and uh you know, our assessment
is that they are running out of
containment.
What happens when there is shut-ins?
What kind of damage is going to be done
to their industry?
Well, I mean, if the shut-ins are uh
over a very short period of time, there
won't be that much damage to the
reservoirs and uh the the production
could recover fairly quickly.
Uh the longer that uh the shut-in is uh
sustained, though, that's when you start
to see issues with uh
uh the geological formations and uh you
know, you can have water coning, you can
have pressure loss. There's just a
number of issues that could develop um
subsurface that prevents full recovery
of production once production starts
flowing. Of course, from the economic
perspective, Iran is really facing
uh many economic challenges with a
number of their people now moving into
poverty, uh food supplies, medical
supplies. Uh you know, they they have
The nation itself has benefited from
being under global sanctions for the
past four decades or so that they have
become somewhat self-sufficient, but
they still need that oil revenue to uh
to fund their economic activities. And I
think that certainly does bring them to
the table a lot quicker. So, Susan,
that's Iran. What about the rest of the
oil industry? We do see WTI this morning
holding on to 105 when it comes to per
barrel. Do you see the paper market
finally catching up to what the physical
market has been pricing in?
Um that certainly has been the trend
over the past couple of weeks. I mean,
when when it was, you know, uh
late March, early April, the paper
markets were well lagging uh the uh the
physical markets. We still do see some
fairly strong premiums for the physical
crude oil, you know, particularly dated
Brent, which is supply that is available
somewhere between 10 to 30 days uh from
uh 10 to 20 days from the uh you know,
the the date that you've uh nominated
your your uh slot. Um
and WTI landed in the uh in the
northeast, like in the in Europe, sorry.
Uh we do see some very strong premiums
there still, but certainly what has
happened is the market structure,
meaning the future months has
strengthened relative to the prompt
month, so we are seeing that curve
flattening out, which definitely
indicates that the uh the paper market
is starting to price in
uh sustained supply disruptions. Can we
talk about the outlook, the much longer
term? What happens after this war is
finished? The more interesting thing
that the Treasury Secretary said over
the weekend was this, that the oil price
may well be lower than it was before the
start of the war. The crude may actually
be below where it was before it was when
the war started. Susan, what do you
think about that? The future, post-Iran
in this war, what the future is like for
the supply of energy.
Well, I think, you know, the one key
event that happened this past week that
could actually make that a reality is
the UAE removing itself from the OPEC
cartel. Um the UAE has designs to grow
their production to 5 million barrels a
day. Before the uh the Middle East
crisis, they were producing at about 3.4
million barrels a day. And certainly, um
you know, if they add that supply to the
market once everything opens up and
starts flowing through the Strait of
Hormuz, directionally it means the
market is longer crude oil, and that
will push prices down. Um our view is
that uh you know, once the Strait opens,
there is going to be a period of months,
um upwards of 6 months, where we will
continue to see prices seeing some
support because we have to see strategic
stocks being refilled and commercial
stocks also being uh refilled back to
more sustainable levels. Susan, it's
good to see you. That's the
counterpoint. Susan Bell of Rystad
Energy. Thank you very much. The bear
case for crude
from Mr. Basson. And potentially the UAE
is helping that bear case. You know,
Havier Blas put out a tweet earlier from
the top uh energy official from the UAE,
Dr. Sultan, and he said basically this
exit wasn't directed at anyone, although
there has been quite the spat for
months, and this was a long time coming
in terms of how the UAE has felt about
the Saudis really running the show at
OPEC. But it says it gives us, the UAE,
greater ability to accelerate accelerate
investment, expand, and create value.
AKA, pour more barrels on the market.
>> It's an important important call from
the Treasury Secretary over the weekend.
Let's get an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Vani Quinn has more. Hey, Vani. Hey,
John. Thank you. Indian Prime Minister
Narendra Modi is set for a landmark
political win. His party is on track for
its first ever election win in the key
opposition-ruled state of West Bengal.
[music]
The results show a major turnaround from
the general election in 2024.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio is
heading to Italy later this week to meet
with Pope Leo. The meeting will mark the
first high-ranking encounter between the
pontiff and a senior administration
official since President Donald Trump
criticized the Pope. [music]
Three people are dead from a suspected
outbreak of the rare hantavirus on a
cruise ship in the Atlantic Ocean. The
World Health Organization says an
investigation [music] is underway. The
Dutch operator of the cruise ship saying
it is now sitting off the west coast
[music] of Africa.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Vani, thank you. More from Vani in the
next hour. Up next on the program, an
uncertain outlook.
There's so much uncertainty about the
outlook in the Middle East right now. I
don't feel comfortable signaling that a
rate cut is in the cards. You know, we
might in the in worst scenarios, we
might have to go the other direction. Up
next, we'll catch up with the former New
York Fed President, Bill Dudley. From
New York City, this is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
The state of play so far this Monday
morning looks like this. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 negative by 0.2% [music]
on the S&P coming off all-time highs in
Friday's session, pulling back just a
touch on the Nasdaq down by 0.1. [music]
Underperformance on a small cap, so get
to why in just a moment, down by 0.6.
The crude elevated, [music] WTI and
Brent. Brent crude 112 and up by 3.5%
and with that move, this move
in bonds, which is probably upending the
move in the equity market on the small
cap side of things. Yields up by four to
five basis points on twos, 392. 10s at
441. Just a line in the sand, if you
will, closing higher the year so far,
only a week or so ago. 442.98, [music]
just short of those levels. And all of
this this morning, a lot of whipsaw on
the financial markets given [music] what
is going on in the conflict in Iran.
Fars came out a report, rumors that they
had hit a US warship. CENTCOM said that
is [music] not accurate, but the issue
is the anxiety still lingers because
right now there's an impasse,
>> [music]
>> and we're not seeing ships get through
the Strait of Hormuz, and it does seem
at this for this moment, even though the
president is talking about guiding
[music] ships out, at this moment it
does seem like the IRGC is still in
control of the Strait of Hormuz. So,
what does this mean for monetary policy?
Things get tricky. Under Surveillance
this morning, a fragile outlook.
At this moment, the labor market seems
like it's okay. But if this conflict is
prolonged, or [music] if it gets much
worse from here, then I think that could
be a real downward shift to the growth
trajectory of the US economy. There's so
much uncertainty about the outlook in
the Middle East right now. I don't feel
comfortable signaling that a rate cut is
in the cards. You know, we might in the
in worst scenarios, we might have to go
the other direction.
>> [music]
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Three Fed officials signaling caution
about the Central Bank's path forward.
The former New York Fed President, Bill
Dudley, saying no good reason for Kevin
Warsh to lower interest rates, writing
his latest rationale that inflationary
pressures are subsiding is no more
convincing than its predecessors. Bill
joins us now for more. Bill, welcome to
the program, sir. What is the strongest
argument against not cutting interest
rates right now?
Well, I think two things. Number one,
the risks of inflation have increased
obviously because of the continued rise
in energy prices. And number two, that
the labor market seems to be pretty
stable. We're not seeing a lot of job
growth, but we're seeing enough job
growth to keep the unemployment rate
from from rising. So, I think that the
balance of risk is actually shifting
more to the inflation side, away from
the labor market side. Second thing is
that there's no real evidence that
monetary policy is actually restrictive
right now. We've had supposedly a
restrictive monetary policy for quite
some time. Yet, the economy is operating
at full employment. And inflation is
well above the Fed's 2% objective. So,
the evidence that the monetary policy is
actually holding back the economy, I
think it's pretty weak in the current
environment. Bill, what do you make of
the AI argument? It wasn't something
that was articulated in the hearing, but
it's something we've heard from Kevin
Warsh before in the lead-up to his
confirmation that ultimately it will
lead to lower prices. It will give them
room to reduce interest rates. What's
the pushback to that?
I think the pushback to that is twofold.
Number one, AI in the short term is
actually increasing investment demand.
So, that's actually pushing upward
pressure on interest rates.
Uh number two, the uncertain There's a
lot of uncertainty about how fast the AI
productivity benefits will materialize.
And it's not really clear whether that
will, you know, what will dominate. The
downward effect on inflation or the
upward effect on the demand for capital
and and and that that that effect of
that on interest rates. There was a poll
of economists that basically found that
80 over 80% of the economists said, "No,
I would not recommend cutting
rates now prospectively on the basis of
an AI productivity boom." The other
weakness of the argument is that Kevin
Warsh has cited the Greenspan experience
in the late 1990s as a reason to cut.
Well, the reality is Greenspan did not
cut in the 19 1990s. He just didn't
raise interest rates. And interest rates
at the time were well above where they
are today. Bill, do you think that's
just a sequencing problem? What's your
ultimate view, your personal view on the
matter? Is that a sequencing issue that
it's expensive up front, it pushes up
costs, there's a climate to buy all
kinds of things, and then later on costs
fall?
Well, I think AI, if we do get a
productivity surge, it's going to be
good good for the outlook for inflation.
I think it's less clear what that means
for interest rates because if AI results
in a, you know, obsoletes a lot of the
capital stock, but you need to sort of
build new capital to take full benefits
of AI, you could actually see continued
upward pressure on real interest rates.
No good reason to cut rates. That was
the title of your piece right now, Bill.
You echo that in this conversation. It
does beg the question, why is the
current Fed chair and the committee
maintaining an easing bias?
I think they start with the presumption
that number one, monetary policy is
restrictive, which I don't really agree
with. And number two, that they're
concerned about the downside risks to
the labor market. I think those downside
risks to the labor market were probably
pretty relevant, you know, a few months
ago. But, the labor market seems to have
stabilized. Look at the level of initial
unemployment claims and total
unemployment claims. They're really
basically as low as they've been in
many, many years. So, there really is
very little evidence that the labor
market's falling apart at this point.
Bill, what do you make of Chair Jay
Powell staying on for longer than many
have anticipated given he will be a
former Fed chair at the next meeting?
Well, it's clearly unusual, but not
without precedent. And you know, for the
people that are criticizing, you know,
Jay Powell for staying on, I think
that's that's not really fair. I mean,
he didn't start this whole situation.
You know, the Fed has been under
merciful attack
merciless attack from the president, and
the Fed's independence is
under question. And I think Powell
thinks that by staying on the Fed,
that's going to actually bolster the
Fed's
perception of the Fed's independence.
So, I think it it makes sense for him to
stay on if he's willing to do so. I
believe over the weekend the Treasury
Secretary called it an overreaching
shadow Fed chair. Do you believe that
this will be confusing for financial
markets to have what some might think
two co-chairs?
Well, I think Powell has made it very
clear that he's going to keep a very low
profile. So, I don't think you're going
to see Powell going out and giving a lot
of speeches about the economic outlook
and the implications for monetary
policy. But, obviously around the
committee,
when they have the actual FOMC meeting,
it's going to be pretty relevant what
Chair Powell says about the economic
outlook. People are certainly going to
continue to listen to him. Bill,
obviously the incoming Fed chair is
going to want to do it his own way. What
kind of changes would you advocate for
in communication, whatever it might be,
fewer speeches, the dot plot? What would
you change?
I think there are a lot of things that
they could they could change and
improve. I mean, I think that number
one, you need a framework for
quantitative easing and quantitative
tightening. They don't have one right
now. When you do it, how do you do it?
How do you exit from it? How do you
evaluate the cost and benefits of it?
Number two, I think they really do need
to improve their communications. And I
think the what I would recommend, and
this is something that Ben Bernanke
recommended, is to actually publish a
staff forecast with scenarios, alternate
scenarios. Scenario analysis right now
is so relevant in an environment where
we don't know how long oil prices how
high oil prices are going to go or how
long they're going to stay high.
So, having different scenarios that
basically say how you would respond if
things turn out differently than you
expect is very helpful information to
guide markets. So, I think, you know,
the ECB does this. I had a conversation
with Christine Lagarde a couple of weeks
ago about this. She, you know, they have
three scenarios, baseline,
adverse and severe and severe. And she
basically said, "Every day that we the
situation in Iran stays the way it is
today, we're taking one more step away
from the baseline scenario towards the
adverse one." So, having alternative
scenarios, I think would help people
think better about monetary policy. But,
is it harder when you have a dual
mandate?
I don't think so. I mean, I think the
dual mandate I think people overestimate
the tension in the dual mandate. End of
the day, I mean, I think the Fed's view
is we need to keep keep inflation at 2%
cuz that's actually going to help us
more easily achieve our employment
objective. So, the two are not quite as
much tension in the long run. They're in
tension in the short run sometimes, but
in the long run, you really need to keep
inflation at 2% if you're actually going
to achieve your objective in terms of
employment. Bill, appreciate your time
and the piece. Great column. Enjoyed the
read. Thank you, sir. The former New
York Fed President Bill Dudley available
on bloomberg.com and under the Bloomberg
Opinion vertical on the Bloomberg
terminal if you can find that piece from
Bill. Great piece. In his opinion,
certainly certainly entitled to his own
opinion on the matter. He does not think
that Kevin Warsh should be cutting
interest rates here. And maybe Kevin
Warsh does have some cover. Remember the
Treasury Secretary saying that maybe
right now is not the right time. Maybe
they need to wait a few months before
they start to reduce interest rates.
But, obviously there's something the
President of the United States would
want to see. One thing that Bill Dudley
does mention in this piece is that the
persistent rise in energy prices
shouldn't be dismissed as noise. The big
question is, how long is this actually
going to last?
>> And fairness to Kevin Warsh, he didn't
make a big effort to communicate an
argument to cut interest rates in the
hearing. No, and I think, and you've
brought this up a number of times. I
think one of the most important things
he said was a little bit at shots thrown
at team transitory, but something he
might have to abide by. Inflation
[music] is a choice. Up next, we catch
up with Jitania Khandari of Morgan
Stanley, Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset
Management, Yelena Shulyatyeva of the
Conference Board, and Kathy Kaminski
[music]
of MassMutual. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance just around the
corner.
>> [music]
>> I would not be outright short risk. Just
stay invested. Don't [music] try to time
this market.
>> It's a little bit of a high convexity
trade still.
>> The market isn't necessarily going in
and rewarding everyone. We still think
the broadening story is happening. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and [music] Anne
Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your opening bell about 19 minutes away.
Equities into it look like this. Equity
futures negative by 10th of 1% on the
S&P, just about unchanged on the Nasdaq.
In the oil market, an update on crude.
Brent crude up by around 3% to 111. It
was up by five and a little bit earlier
in the session [clears throat]
on some conflicting [music] headlines
about developments in the Middle East.
>> But, still holding on to some of those
gains. And those conflicting headlines
[music] comes from Fars in Iran saying
that they actually
>> [music]
[music]
>> going after Western or
Western-affiliated and their partners'
vessels. [music] And maybe that's why
you're seeing this risk premium still in
the oil market.
>> That's keeping crude elevated. Bond
yields, too, higher by four basis points
on the session. Your two-year at the
moment at 3.92. Your 10-year north of
4.40. For the bond market, the next step
[music] the next stage is the data. It
was all about earnings last week. This
week is all about the economic data. And
a big one is on Friday, payrolls Friday
just around the corner. The median in
our survey, the median estimate is 65K.
The highest 140, the lowest -15. So, the
range is still wide, wide, wide.
>> The range is so wide, it's really, you
know, anyone's [music]
bet like a casino on what happens on
Friday when it comes to the payrolls
report. But, what is notable is that the
US economy [music]
has been resilient in the face of all
these headwinds. Even Jay Powell said
that at [music] the press conference,
the outgoing Fed chair. Whether or not
it was tariffs, whether or not it's the
Iran conflict, you do see the economy
and the consumer [music] at the moment
resilient. At some point, they start to
break, especially when you see gasoline
prices ticking higher closer to $5 a
gallon.
>> We'll speak to the Conference Board a
little bit later about confidence. When
[music] you say resilient, confidence is
terrible.
It is just on the floor right now if you
believe in the likes of you, Mitch. Rock
bottom. Consumption still okay based on
the spending data we've seen. Retail
sales has been okay. We spoke to Bank of
America earlier on this morning looking
at their card data. That's holding up,
too. When I say resilience, I'm talking
about the data because [music] when you
look at things like University of
Michigan, it basically feels like a
political poll and also a place where
people, of course, maybe when they say,
[music] "How do you feel about the
economy right now?" Maybe they just went
out and filled up their tank and they're
saying, "Well, I'm annoyed." Well, of
course, they're going to have that
knee-jerk reaction, but individuals are
still going out and they're still
spending. Futures this morning negative
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P with the
opening bell just around the corner.
>> [music]
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Jitendra Dari of Morgan Stanley with
stocks pulling back from all-time highs.
Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan on the AI data
center boom. Yelena Shulyatyeva of The
Conference Board as rising gas prices
weigh on confidence. We begin this hour
with stocks lower and crude rising as
geopolitical uncertainty puts the record
rally on hold. Jitendra Dari of Morgan
Stanley Investment Management writing,
"Markets are acknowledging risk,
especially on energy, but the dominant
force is still earnings and AI-led CapEx
with geopolitics acting more as a
volatility amplifier than a regime
breaker." Jitendra joins us now for
more. Jitendra, good morning. Good to
see you. Are these the trends, the
forces you want to fight? If you're on
the wrong side of this trade right now,
how painful are things?
Yeah, it's a great question. I think
what's happening on one end, as I said,
is the AI-driven CapEx, which has been a
bigger contributor to US GDP growth in
the last year than consumption, which
has traditionally been the highest
contributor to growth. So, I think
there's merit in this momentum.
What I do worry about is how the
duration of the Iran conflict can
finally come to roost. And at this
point, of course, there are offsets.
What's really interesting is that
as much as US has energy and
independence, if you look at countries
in North Asia like Taiwan and Korea that
have exports to the extent of about $700
billion
compared to past 200 250 billion
dollars, and you contrast that with
energy imports, which is basically,
you know, energy importing countries are
in Asia, energy imports are about $230
billion.
So, the gap between the export revenues
and the energy imports is so high that
even a tripling in prices doesn't really
move the trade deficit. So, what's going
on is all of these offsets in the US, of
course, with the, you know, lower gas
prices, but even in other pockets of the
world like North Asia, which are
traditional energy importers, but have
some interesting offsets. So, it we're
really being discerning in terms of how
we are investing, trying to buy
uncorrelated sources of alpha wherever
we can find them.
And at this point, clearly, you know,
tracking how this energy duration of
this energy disruption holds up.
>> I think for a lot of people, they've
tried to make this quite simple. They've
found some price-insensitive spenders.
Price-insensitive spenders right now,
big buyers of all this technology,
the hyperscalers in this country
spending north of $700 billion or at
least intending to this year, and
they're going to where the money's been
spent. They're going to the chip
players, and they've been piling into
that trade, and that trade has moved
from 40 to 50% off the lows from the end
of March. Do you think there is a better
way to express bullishness beyond just
that very narrow trade at the moment?
Absolutely. So, I think, you know, even
within AI, there are three layers. One
is infrastructure, which is what you
talked about, the chips and servers and
networking. The second is models, which
I think will be commoditized by the end
of this. And the third is applications,
right? And applications, you have the
agentic applications, which is software,
and the embodied applications, which is
physical AI. Now,
physical AI has its own ecosystem
because robotics, humanoids are coming.
Talk about defense and modern warfare is
all about human without being in the
loop. What does that mean? We've looked
at lidar companies, which are needed in
the physical AI world. So, we're
exploring the ecosystem beyond the
traditional AI plays into the next
AI second derivatives. And of course,
software also looks, you know, it's like
first software was eating the world, now
AI is eating software, but I think you
need to be discerning.
>> Do you think this is a world where
hardware and software can perform well?
Because at the moment, it feels like one
versus the other. I think AI is a full
cycle capital stack, right? As I said,
it's ranges right from the
infrastructure, the picks and shovels
traditionally, to applications. So, I
think
it's very it's it's not wise to be just
hardware software, but to kind of
diversify across the capital stack. And
even look at, like I said, the next
era of embodied AI, physical AI, and
what that means.
>> Is there enough in that story right now
to ignore what's going on in terms of
the conflict in Iran?
You know, I think we can't ignore it. If
you see the monthly numbers, there is
demand destruction going on as well.
About 3 million barrels of demand
destruction has happened. There's data
center rationing in Asia, restaurants
are getting closed in some pockets of
Asia. So, it's important to keep in mind
what that means because at some point,
if this is going to impact growth, I
think the markets are really
poised for for perfection. And even at
the IMF meetings 10 days ago, the policy
makers were extremely nervous. There is
a big gap, you know, JP Morgan called it
cognitive dissonance. Big gap between
what they think is the extent of damage
with 80 plus energy facilities having
been destroyed and a third of them
severely destroyed. So, it's going to
take a take time to ramp that up. So, I
am concerned about the spillover if this
blockade lasts long. You have an
interesting perspective cuz what the
policy makers are thinking versus what
the C-suite is thinking is a really
large gap. And you were also at the
Berkshire Hathaway over the weekend, the
meetings. What did you learn there?
Where are they deploying capital? Are
they concerned about this conflict?
>> Yeah, so Berkshire was the meetings was
not about what they've invested in, it's
about what they've not invested in.
They're sitting in with a lot of cash.
The the bar for capital allocation
by Warren, Greg, is very high.
They did mention there are several great
narratives in the market, but very, very
few mispricing.
Patience is their strategy, and they
they think that it's, you know,
discipline versus participation in these
markets. So,
you know, and even on AI, it was pretty
like pragmatic in the sense, yes,
there's energy efficiency that'll come
with it.
Too early to replace human judgment.
Very, very different from my statement.
>> you find that weekend? Because if I take
two charts, their cash pile up into the
right, and plot it against the equity
market up into the right. Does it make
sense to be in cash for this long? To
have a cash pile that big? You know, I
guess as Berkshire Hathaway, you can,
but as investors, we are given money to
not hold cash. So, you really have to be
in that
>> difference? Why why would you want to
give money to someone else just to hold
T-bills?
You wouldn't, right?
I wouldn't. I'm an investor, and I think
that, as I said, there's an AI stack in
the world. It's broad-based. There's an
industrial stack in the world, defense,
automation, electrification. There are
great domestic economies, even when
Europe, which is some countries are
gas-intensive like Germany, UK, but some
have great renewables like France and
Spain. There's the emerging universe
with terms of trade beneficiaries
because all of this is going to need
commodities. Brazil has 5 million
barrels of crude production, it exports
two and a half. There's a lot of
opportunity outside both within and
outside the US. And I guess that's what
we're trying to do. Jitendra, it's good
to see you. As always, thank you.
Jitendra Dari there of Morgan Stanley
Investment Management. Equity futures
stable, negative about a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500. With an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief,
Vanya Kwong has more. Hey, Vanya. Hey,
John. The US is denying claims from
Iranian state media that an American
warship was hit by missiles. Iran had
claimed [music] two missiles struck a US
vessel. US CENTCOM posting on X that
naval forces are supporting Project
Freedom and enforcing the naval blockade
on Iranian ports.
A United Airlines flight striking a
light post on the New Jersey Turnpike
before landing safely at New York
Liberty International. The FAA and NTSB
are investigating the incident. None of
the 221 passengers and 10 crew on board
were injured.
Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani
is in a critical but stable condition at
a Florida hospital. In a social media
post, President Trump calling the
81-year-old a true warrior and the best
mayor in the history of New York.
That is your [music] Bloomberg Brief,
John. Vanya, thank you. Thank you for
the update. Up next, we'll get you some
money calls, plus we'll touch base with
[music] Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan on the
AI data center boom and the commercial
real estate play
>> [music]
>> in this country. From New York City this
morning, good morning.
There is a lot working for the economy,
but there are two things that the
economy can't stand up in the face of,
which is higher for longer oil or really
higher for longer rates. If we continue
down this path, we run the risk of a
little bit of both if we put the Fed in
such a bind because of higher oil
prices. That was Ross Mayfield of Baird
joining the program a little bit later a
little bit earlier. Equity futures right
now in the S&P 500 [music] negative by a
tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq firmer by
tenth of 1% muted price action now but
two hours ago anything but pretty
volatile price action. There were some
headlines crossing according to state
media in Iran that a US ship was struck
[music] by missiles denial about an hour
later from US officials but in between
equities down crude higher. The moving
crude
>> [music]
>> still sticks just about Brent crude
what's up by about 5% now up by 2.5
close to 111 on Brent WTI 103 and with
that move push it through bonds fixed
income yields higher by four basis
points [music] on a two year 391 and
that move has stuck this morning across
the curve. So CENTCOM is saying no US
Navy ships have been struck [music] and
obviously you would see I think pretty
immediately the US fire back but it is
notable that the UAE [music] is talking
about an Adnoc vessel that was trying to
move through the Strait of Hormuz was
actually
was actually targeted by the IRGC
[music]
which is why you see the risk premium
continue in the oil market a lot of
anxiety and just really uncertainty and
what's going on in the Strait [music] of
Hormuz. There is some real risk off of
that but we're insulated by earnings
you've heard that so many times on this
program. Mike Wilson [music] Morgan
Stanley publishing just moments ago
resiliency this earnings season is
broader than appreciated with a median
stock [music] EPS growth rate of 16%
and a beat rate of 6% the strongest in
some four years. That's why stocks are
still at [music] all time highs. That's
the price action let's give you some
morning calls first up HSBC downgrading
AMD to hold citing limited [music]
upside potential expecting server upside
to be capped throughout this year. Your
second call from Oppenheimer upgrading
Airbnb to outperform [music] saying the
company is well positioned to absorb
travel dislocations from oil supply
shocks while benefiting from World Cup
demand [music] and finally bear
downgrading Alexandria real estate to
neutral saying operating backdrop
remains challenging. That name is down
by 0.7%. Let's stick with real estate as
AI spending skyrockets the race to
secure power and space for data centers
is creating opportunities in the
commercial landscape. Tom Kennedy of JP
Morgan writing power is the new
diversifier. We've moved from a US
economy fueled by the checkout line to
one fueled by the grid. Tom joins us now
for more. Tom good morning. Good
morning. Good to see you you alluded to
it I want you to build this out. The
commercial real estate needs of the last
20 years and what you think the needs
will be for the next 20 years. Yeah I
think it's a great place to draw the
line in the sand is when China joins the
WTO in 2001 and the era of globalization
is upon us.
We built out a logistics network where
we could get goods down to your house
here in New York City in 1 hour and it
took 20 years to get there.
That has been the driver of the
commercial real estate boom in
industrial sector but now with rising
geopolitics with COVID we now need to
onshore and reshore certain assets and
certain businesses that they all need
high power. We talk a lot about a data
center needs a lot of power but the
applications for AI and these onshore
businesses also need a lot of power. So
you've got the wrong mix right now.
How's the build out going at the moment?
Very slowly. For the last 20 years over
that era of globalization America built
about 5 billion square feet of logistics
and warehouse to again get those goods
to you really fast. We only built about
300 million square feet of manufacturing
space.
But over the last four years annual
increases in demand for manufacturing
space up 50% really haven't seen that in
20 plus years. So the supply and demand
imbalance is quite big. If it's going
slow what can what can be the accelerate
in this?
Well it's going slow to build a
manufacturing
operating center just takes a long time.
So there's a time constraint Emery is
one part of it. The other is we have to
be able to build these high powered
manufacturing
buildings in only certain places.
America's grid is not set up as one big
beautiful grid. It's set up as three
very distinct grids and power is not
easily transmitted across them. It could
be.
It could be it needs some advancement in
technological advancement and
>> of red tape. Are you seeing more of that
from this administration? Well the grids
are a little bit different. The grids
are the energy grids that don't talk to
each other there's one in the East one
in the West and then Texas and to be
able to have them talk is a networking
problem that isn't necessarily red tape
some of that but within certain states
you are seeing accelerants to say
onshoring and reshoring into those
areas.
New York is one of them Texas is another
one. So there is some element of this
red tape
but across state lines and the grid
that's a harder one to fix.
>> Just curious where does office space
fit into all of this?
So far in the last 12 months office is
the best performing commercial real
estate sector. It usually shocks people
how could that be? It does sound
shocking so how could it be? Well
a couple of things are happening. We the
return to office thing is real JP Morgan
is emblematic of that we're in the
office five days a week. So is
Bloomberg. So is Bloomberg there we go.
But there are other companies following
trend there and we're just not building
new office buildings. It takes four five
years to build an office building and
right now in the pipeline is a small
amount of new supply coming in the next
five years the majority of it is already
pre-leased. So supply picture is
restrained but we're we're coming back
to the office maybe not every day of the
week but on Wednesdays for the most part
we're coming back. And this is what
people worry about though you get this
demand boom and then people start
building then you get the supply bust
further down the line and it's the worry
and this applies to a whole range of
things beyond commercial real estate
this applies to say chips manufacturing
all kind of things.
Is it too soon to worry?
It's incredibly too soon
>> Are we talking like decades because the
way people talk about this is that the
timeline is so so long don't even worry
about it.
>> A really simple way that I think about
this question of will there be a supply
boom in commercial real estate? Well
to build a building right now is about
25% more expensive than the value of the
building that's that you're looking at
on average across commercial real
estate. So you could look at it a couple
ways why would anyone build
until this gap closes or I can buy this
existing property and put at least 25%
of upgrades in it before it becomes
someone want to build next to me. So uh
we should not be worried about supply
boom right now in commercial real
estate. The only meaningful in um
investment in new supply coming is in
this high powered industrial space.
The next question is how this fits into
a portfolio.
So let's start with exposure and then we
can get to the diversification stuff
that I want to spend some time on. How
do you take exposure to these kind of
things? What you advocating for at the
moment? So in the alternative space or
in private markets commercial real
estate is the biggest sector.
So as you look at a portfolio a lot of
people have exposure to this. It's a
relatively mature private investment. Um
but as you start to broaden out now
we are in a new era of diversification
coming back to where we started. The era
of globalization caused bonds to be a
great diversifier.
In a academic sense why? Well inflation
was very low. So if growth came down the
Fed could just cut rates but if growth
came up they didn't necessarily hike
rates. Now we're fighting inflation from
the top side so new diversifier
nominally resetting diversifiers
commercial real estate infrastructure to
some degree hedge funds think that's the
place to be. Can I take you into a
different asset class just bonds just
pure vanilla fixed income.
If the diversifier is different and
things have changed and I knew why I was
buying that for the last 20 years
because it gave me certain benefits
introduced certain characteristics into
my portfolio in very simple terms and
it's not doing that anymore are people
going to buy less fixed fixed income?
To some degree by definition they
should. If I was buying bonds in the
globalization era for yield and
diversification I think now you're
mostly buying it for the yield and yet
yields are higher so I think there's
offsetting characteristics there. I
think if someone in their portfolio is
now saying I need to own bonds it better
be for the income. That's the
predominant benefit it's offering to you
in your portfolio.
>> Where does that leave state finances and
how are you thinking about those things?
I think it leads to a place where
there's probably higher term premium
than we've been used to. In most of our
professional careers here term premium
this concept of
can I get a yield lower than what I
expect the the bond to the yield of the
bond to give me over the life
like relative to a risk free rate as
negative we shouldn't expect that
anymore. And you models academic models
are showing you term premium is coming
up.
If this environment persists for a long
time I think it should continue to rise
and it does challenge the ability to
finance
more risky types of bonds. That's what I
wanted to get into just a little bit
more.
The future portfolio just how different
things are going to be in the next 10 15
years.
I think the two dominant things that
will be different one is this concept of
term premium which should separate
winners and losers in the bond market
which we really haven't seen materially
in the last maybe 10 years ex-COVID and
the other is this movement from public
markets to private markets.
It's much more efficient for a bank to
allow someone else to give a private
credit loan.
So the notion that this market is just
happening haphazard is not true. It's
more of a structural regulatory shift.
Those are the two dominant shifts. Do
you think it's unfair that the let's
just say the PR the way people talk
about private markets has been reduced
to just BTCs BDCs and and redemptions?
Yeah.
Has that bugged you when you go around
talking about some of these issues? Uh
bug is a is
is a little bit more aggressive than I
would say. I think it's a just a
misunderstanding of how the environment
has shifted and again a big bank's
ability and willingness to give a small
whole loan to a a small business it's
just not a good use of their capital
they can do other things with it. So
it's created this environment for
alternative managers to step in and do
that in a more efficient way.
You know ex-central banker in me well a
a bank is
eight to 12 times levered a private
credit business is one to two times
levered. It is less risk assuming
there's good backstops and ability for
those asset managers. Tom thoughtful
stuff lots to consider thanks for being
here. Appreciate it. Thank you sir. Tom
Kennedy there of JP Morgan Asset
Management. If you are just joining us
equities are recovering here almost
unchanged on the S&P 500 more headlines
just moments ago. Right, we have a tweet
from Central Command saying that
basically the US Navy guided missile
destroyers are currently operating in
the Arabian Gulf after transiting the
Strait of Hormuz in support of object
project freedom. American forces are
actively assisting efforts to restore
transit for commercial shipping. This is
the key as a first step. Two US flagged
merchant vessels have successfully
transited through the Strait of Hormuz
and are safely headed on their journey.
We really have not seen that and that
would show that this guided effort when
it comes to project freedom is working.
one hand though, Jonathan, we also got
an update from Adnoc talking about this
vessel that was targeted by two Iranian
drones. So potentially there's good news
in project freedom, but also the IRGC is
still going after certain ships.
>> are still fragile, crude still elevated
off the highs though, 103 now on WTI.
Brent crude just north of 110, 110.60
and up my 2% on the session. We talked
lots about that move in the bond market.
Off session highs for two-year yields,
tens as well and 30s. Two's now [music]
at let's say 3.91, tens at just short of
4.40. Up next we'll catch [music] up
with Yelena Shulyatyeva of the
Conference Board as rising gas prices
weigh on consumer confidence. Plus
Yuhara is back with your morning movers.
eBay searching on interest from
GameStop. [music] The stock is up by 7%.
The open in about 60 [music]
minutes away. Equity futures on the S&P
negative by let's call it a tenth of 1%.
No drama here. We closed on Friday
all-time highs on the Nasdaq this
morning adding a little bit of weight to
that rally up by 0.1%
[music] as we count you down to the cash
open 1 hour away. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
Yuhara has more. Hey Yuhara. Hi John, we
have some earnings to get through and we
start with Tyson. Those shares are up
1.3% [music] in the pre-market after the
company boosted its full-year outlook
thanks to strong demand for its protein,
>> [music]
>> especially chicken. That helping to
offset weakness in its beef business, an
area that's still losing money as tight
cattle supplies [music] keep costs
elevated there. Uh turning to another
earning story, Norwegian Cruise Line
Holdings shares are falling 6.4%
in the pre-market after [music] it cut
its full-year guidance um guiding to its
first annual profit drop since the
pandemic. The [music] company performing
the worst among its cruise line peers
thanks to higher fuel costs of course,
but Norwegian [music]
also saying that they are seeing
consumers pull back on travel,
especially to [music] Europe. And we end
on our big corporate story, eBay shares
soaring 7 and [music] 1/2% in the
pre-market as GameStop offers to buy the
company for $56 billion. It's an
audacious bet [music] with eBay about
four times the size of GameStop, but
that company trying to perform a
turnaround. John. Yuhara, thank you.
Thanks for the [music] update,
appreciate this morning. Let's turn back
to the economy. A busy week of data
coming up with loads of Fed speak and
the headline on Friday, the headline
data point is payrolls Friday.
Bloomberg's Mike McKee has more for us.
Good morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. Well, let me start
with what's not going to happen this
week. The Senate's out of session, so
Kevin Warsh is not going to be confirmed
this week. Look for that maybe next
week. Also the Supreme Court is not
issuing orders this week as far as we
know and so no Lisa Cook decision is
coming. But beyond that, as you
mentioned, a lot going on Tuesday. ISM
Services will be looking at the jobs
component and we'll be looking at the
prices paid component. On Wednesday, ADP
jobs, same story about the the labor
market. Is the labor market hanging in
there? We'll get productivity on
Thursday. Everybody be looking for some
evidence of AI in it, probably too early
for that. But then of course, Friday is
the big day with the April jobs report
and we'll see if the unemployment rate
stays unchanged, the forecast 4.3%. If
that's the case, the Fed feels better
about not having to cut.
The employment mandate test is Friday as
I mentioned and it's not just 4.3%, but
do we still see companies hiring at all?
The forecast is for about half of what
we got last month in private payrolls
making up more than half of that.
Average hourly earnings would tick up to
3.8%.
The K-shaped economy is always a concern
these days and as you mentioned, a lot
of Fed speak this week. The highlight
probably comes at the beginning and the
end of the week. John Williams, vice
chair of the Open Market Committee, the
New York Fed president is speaking
today. Tomorrow we get two governors
speaking and then Friday, Chris Waller,
who was one of the first Fed governors
to say we should cut rates back when
they began their cycle, who is now
suggesting that maybe it's not time to.
So we'll see if he has any update there.
So a lot to watch for this week and
we'll be on top of all of it. He's the
one to watch without a doubt, Waller on
Friday, Mike. Just to dissect some of
the dissents that we saw and the
explanations for them. Neil Kashkari's
was somewhat interesting. He's making
the argument for a tightening of
financial conditions ahead of time just
in case they have to hike interest rates
because the job would otherwise be much
bigger, Mike. What did you make of that
argument? Well, it's an interesting
argument because as you heard Bill
Dudley say earlier on your show that he
doesn't think that the monetary
conditions are very tight right now. So
if you wanted to move the markets, you
could change your bias to
a neutral bias, could go up, could go
down, which would signal the tight the
loosening cycle is over and probably
send yields up some. Mike McKee with the
latest. Mike, looking forward to your
coverage. Payrolls on Friday and lots in
between. Let's turn to the consumer.
Yelena Shulyatyeva of the Conference
Board warning rising gas prices are
weighing on confidence. She writes the
following, "Inflation is starting to
broaden beyond energy and should widen
further through peak driving season
adding more drag on consumption." Yelena
joins us now for more. Yelena, good
morning. Good morning. That's where I
wanted to start, the relationship
between confidence and consumption. How
tight is the relationship right now? I
think it's actually tighter than we
usually talk about. So I think at least
directionally you see consumer spending
is slowing and consumer confidence at
least as measured by the Conference
Board is starting to stabilize. So
remember they were so different, right?
So consumer confidence was plunging and
consumer spending was so strong. I think
now we see some convergence going.
>> explain that convergence particularly
from consumer confidence up? What's
happening there? I think consumers are
just you know, look at the economy, see
what is going on. It's not really
uh
you know, falling off a cliff and they
do see the news. They see the
unemployment rate is steady. Those who
want to work are still working. So you
know, they they're happy about it.
>> And this is the difference I think in
survey construction. When we talk about
you, much so much of that seems to be
pinned on what's the price of gas.
Gasoline's above $4 a gallon. Is yours
much more focused on the labor market
and do people feel better about their
prospects in this job market?
>> I don't think they really feel better.
There's still a lot of difficulty
finding jobs, but I think it seems to be
stabilizing at least. So another thing
that we ask about is financial
conditions like financial conditions for
your family, not not economy overall.
And financial situation is not as great
and consumers are worried about it. So
this is I think is one of the reasons we
see that consumer spending is slowing.
Well, we have $4 north of $4 a gallon of
gasoline. The highest ever was under the
Biden administration. It was June of
2022, north of $5 a gallon. Are you
seeing similar responses to what we saw
that June?
In terms of consumer confidence,
I think that we see it in other
different measures beyond the headline
index. So there's a lot of pessimism in
the writing responses. So we're not only
measuring the the index itself and the
subcomponents, but also asking consumers
to tell us in their own words what is
going on. There's a lot of concern and
there's an increase in the mentions of
gasoline, higher inflation and things
like that.
>> same time, so many Americans got bigger
tax refunds. Is that helping them in
terms of cushioning their pocketbooks?
>> Maybe uh just temporarily uh and
partially. I think the bigger result is
is going to be that it's going to last
and I think it's probably going to last
longer than we think. And if oil is at
an average of $100 per barrel as you
know, it is right now for Q2, I think
that shaves off 0.4 percentage points
from GDP growth. This is according to
our estimates.
>> it's really hard to speculate, but do
you think gasoline goes through $5 a
gallon?
As we approach peak driving season.
>> driving season, that's exactly
>> Are consumers preparing for that
mentally? I think they're worried about
it, but until that happens, consumers
will probably continue to spend. So
there's this tension between what we
expect and what is actually happening
right now.
>> Can we finish on AI and the labor
market? I'd love your thoughts on this.
Note of the weekend came from Torsten
Slok of Apollo. A much better outlook
for the jobs market. He wrote this,
"Nearly 2 million workers in the
Philippines now working call centers up
every year since 2016 and through the AI
boom." He says as AI makes call center
work cheaper and faster, companies are
buying more of it, not less. Lower cost
per interaction does not mean fewer
interactions, it means more customers
served, more channels opened and more
markets worth reaching. I thought that
was really promising because many people
are concerned that AI is going to
destroy certain parts of the jobs
market. How constructive are you? Well,
I am pretty constructive actually on AI.
So that seems to be the the engine
driving, uh, you know, labor market
growth. So, companies looking beyond,
uh, the temporary disruption in the
street. So, I was, uh, we visiting, uh,
members, uh, in a couple of weeks, and I
was like talking to CFOs, and they are
like, "Well, we have to look beyond
uncertainty. We cannot just stop
investing." And And that's what they're
doing. They're looking beyond that, uh,
temporary disruption, no matter how big
it is, and they are investing, and they
And are things picking up at entry level
as well for the younger workers, too?
I've seen some chance recently that seem
a little bit more promising than
certainly what I'd fit. I really hope
so. I I really need to see more of that.
Uh, still, you know, things are much
worse for the younger generation that it
is for overall labor force.
>> Let's hope things change. Yelena, it's
good to see you. Thanks for being here.
Yelena Shulyatyeva there at The
Conference Board on the outlook for the
labor market. I thought the note from
Torsten was great. One of the most
exposed industries for hiring AI, call
centers, you'd think things would be
cratering.
That apparently
the things that tech is supposed to be
hurting right now, it's it's fueling
expansion, at least for that. Yeah,
that's what he says. The technology
that's supposed to shrink the industry
is fueling its expansion, but those 2
million workers were hired in the
Philippines. What does that mean for
America and Americans workforce? Does
this mean AI are able to,
uh, put those serve put those jobs
elsewhere and at a cheaper rate outside
of the United States? This is going to
be a massive political problem, not just
for this midterm election, but for 2028.
>> Let's get you up to speed on the price
action. Stocks right now in the S&P 500
negative by 0.1%
on the S&P, and the bond market yields
higher by some three basis points on
twos at 3.91, and crude still somewhat
elevated. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vani has more. Hey,
Vani. Hey, John. Thank you. Spirit
Airlines shutting down after failing to
secure a $500 million bailout from the
Trump administration. The company
posting a statement early Saturday
morning saying, [music] quote, "All
Spirit flights have been canceled, and
guests should not go to the airport."
A blockbuster opening for The Devil
Wears Prada 2, the Walt the Walt
>> [music]
>> the Walt Disney, I should say, movie
starring Meryl Streep and Anne Hathaway,
making $233 million worldwide. That
makes it one of the year's largest
opening weekends.
In sports, a trio of games sevens over
the weekend in the NBA, the [music]
Cleveland Cavaliers eliminating the
Toronto Raptors and the top-seeded
Detroit Pistons defeating the Orlando
Magic.
>> [music]
>> Also, the the Philadelphia 76ers coming
coming back from a 3-1 deficit to upset
the Boston Celtics. They will take on
the New York Knicks with game one
tipping off this evening. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John. Very [music]
cool, Vani. Thanks for the update. Thank
you. Up next on the program, setting you
up for the day ahead, plus we'll catch
up with Kelly Kowalski of MassMutual
with the rally stalling ahead of the
opening bell. Equity futures
>> [music]
>> just about unchanged.
The market is no longer asymmetric like
it was as we were advocating [music]
in March and April. You still got a
little bit of upside, but at the same
time, we have to work on the assumption
there is back to a negative decay
[music]
for risk assets. I The longer this goes
on within the Straits of Hormuz, the
more problems [music] we're now going to
face. A lot of the buffer that we had in
place going into this debacle is [music]
now going to get eroded. The price of
the story has changed. That was Alex
Altman of Barclays following a
double-digit rally off the lows at the
end of March, and gains of [music] 40,
50% on certain semis.
The chip index absolutely ripped it
>> [music]
>> since the end of March and the March
low. Equities this morning stalling
somewhat. Equity futures negative by
10th of 1% on the S&P after closing at
all-time highs in Friday's session.
Similar story on the Nasdaq with
positive by about a 10th, just about
[music] unchanged really across the
board here. In the bond market, things
get a little bit more interesting, at
least they were more interesting earlier
in the session. Yields were more
elevated than this, but still [music]
through 3.90 on twos and around 4.40 on
10s as crude picks up steam. 110 on
Brent, WTI still in triple digits.
Thursday, Friday, big two-day drop of
about 8%, but this morning we pick up
again [music]
by let's call it 3/4 of 1% on WTI.
Things are still tense in the Middle
East.
>> Very fragile, very [music] tense at the
moment, especially this morning with a
number of, uh, headlines whipsawing.
Farce saying that Iranians hit a US
warships, and COM said no. Here is one
positive note, though, coming out of
CENTCOM
>> [music]
>> saying two US flag merchant vessels has
successfully transited through the
Strait of Hormuz. That's incredibly
positive given the fact the president
said they were going to guide, not
escort, guide vessels out of [music] the
strait. There's a big difference between
guide and escort, that's for sure. As we
count you down to the cash open, let's
talk about the week ahead. Last [music]
week was all about the earnings. This
week is all about the data. At 10:00
a.m. Eastern time, we get durable goods.
Tomorrow, PMI data and results from AMT.
>> [music]
>> On Wednesday, Disney reports, plus, I
believe through the week we get ADP and
jobless claims. Jobless claims, of
course, drop on Thursday. On Friday,
it's the payrolls report. Stocks at the
moment very close to all-time highs
following a series of headlines from
Iran that whipsawed equity futures
earlier on this morning. Kelly Kowalski
of MassMutual writing the following,
"Even with this uncertainty, it's
difficult to turn pessimistic in the
near term amid stellar earnings
momentum." Kelly joins us now for more.
Kelly, welcome back to the program. How
impressive has that earnings story been?
Well, Jonathan, thanks for having me.
Good morning. I I think coming into this
earnings season, the bar was, you know,
relatively low, but we have just blown
it out, and granted, a lot of that has
come from the AI CAPEX story, and we've
seen second quarter earnings
expectations in shop, as well as, you
know, year-end 2026.
So, I I think it's it's not hard to
really look at the results we've seen
and and be that surprised that the
markets continue to rally even amid, you
know, long-dated crude futures
continuing to inch up. Kelly, we saw
throughout the year people itch people
itching to rotate away from big tech,
itching to rotate into other markets,
international markets, whether it be
Europe or Asia, some big performance in
places like South Korea and Japan. And
now it just like feels like the central
US tech trade is back, and it's drawing
more and more people in once again. What
do you suggest they do about
concentrated risk? Is that a feature or
a bug?
I think I I think it can be both for
investors. So, you know, we we look at
the equity markets as well as the bond
markets, where you are seeing growing
concentration, and it really means
continuing to pick your spots and have a
little bit more patience. We've seen,
uh, a, you know, a huge swell of, uh,
CAPEX-related issuance in in our IG
credit space, and it's caused us to be
just a little bit more patient there. I
think it's hard to fade it too much in
equity markets because you have such a
supply-demand mismatch. When you have
these hyperscalers with over a trillion
dollar in backlogs, it's hard to be too
negative there with that disconnect
between supply and demand. Kelly, in
your report in your note, you talk about
how earnings are underscoring several
encouraging signals. There's still this
resilience, especially in the upper
echelons of society, to continue
spending, and you say, "What war?" Is
this market just basically in a position
to shrug off what is going on in the
Middle East?
I think for now, you have you have all
of these tailwinds, right? You have the
CAPEX build, you have the the buffer
from the fiscal side, you know, the
average consumer is getting 3,500 to
3,700 in in tax refunds. So, so that's
all good and well for now, but I think
as we get into the the remainder of the
year, this war may start to matter more
as you see the commodity inflation feed
through, the food inflation feed
through, and eventually that that, you
know, leaks into services on top of
maybe the services inflation we already
have right now. Um, so for now, you
know, we're seeing a lot of positive
tailwinds, but we are prepared for that
to face some challenges as you think
about some uncomfortable inflation
prints we we may see and the upward
pressure in bond yields. Well, what does
that mean, this higher potential
inflation prints? This administration
was talking about a war that could last
four to six weeks. Now we're entering
the 10th week. Is there a line in the
sand where you have to start to rethink
some of the impact?
I think there is, and and there's
obviously midterm elections coming up,
but, you know, November is a is a long
is a long way away, but there there is
only so much, um, you know, that can be
controlled when you think about the
negotiations, and and the strategy now
is, you know, even if this does get
concluded in in short order, you know,
how do things come back online, and
given, you know, the impact of
fertilizer shipments, how is that going
to impact, you know, the the crops that
were planted? There's still a lot in
motion, I think, that has happened that
we still have to see the impacts of, uh,
regardless of if this, you know,
concludes in two weeks or in in another
four to six weeks.
>> Kelly, many investors stopped caring
about this issue on this side of the
Atlantic, in New York, in the United
States, and they've stopped caring for
for quite a while now. What do you think
that moment looks like when they start
to care? If there is that moment, what
do you think it will look like?
I
I you look, I think I think the consumer
is, you know, hoping that this gets
resolved, and I think the market is is
pricing for the same, but you're
probably going to see, uh, a slowdown in
the consumer. I mean, I think you've
already seen it with, you know, Bank of
America reporting that travel slowed
down in April. You you saw some earnings
reports from from Domino's Pizza, from
Wingstop that um it was mattering for
the consumer, but you probably would see
it get a little bit more more
broad-based. I don't think sentiment can
get any lower than it is right now if
you if you kind of look at at some of
the readings.
Um but as you sort of get into the to
the second half of the year, it is the
do we expect the consumer to to
collapse? Probably not because you still
got that high-end consumer still
spending. Um but they're going to be
muddling through a little bit more and
it is going to get um you know a little
probably more dire for certain people.
Kelly, appreciate the update. Thank you.
Kelly Kowalski there of MassMutual on
this market going into the opening bell
about 39 minutes away. Eyes on crude.
Right now Brent still rising, but off
this morning's highs. The US is denying
claims from Iranian state media earlier
on this morning that an American warship
was hit by missiles. For an update, I
want to cross over to Tyler Kendall down
in Washington, D.C. Tyler, what is the
latest this morning?
Hey John, well you mentioned it there.
We got this confirmation from CENTCOM
that no American navy ships have been
hit after Iranian state media had
reported that there were some strikes.
CENTCOM also went on to confirm that so
far two US flag merchant vessels have
transited through the Strait of Hormuz.
This comes on the heels of President
Trump announcing what is being called
Operation Freedom to help move vessels
through that the president says are
neutral. But many shippers have been
left without many details, but perhaps
this could be a good indication that
those efforts are working. In fact, we
did get some headlines out of some
shippers earlier today saying that they
are taking President Trump's efforts
into account when they are reviewing
their security protocols. Also though,
at the same time, the situation really
does remain highly highly fragile. John,
as you well know, earlier today Iranian
state media said that the government had
redefined the control zone in
the Strait of Hormuz appearing to say
that they are putting out new maps where
they're going to keep their own control.
And while they say that, the United
States and the Joint Maritime
Information Center saying they have an
enhanced security area that they are
establishing when it comes to the Strait
of Hormuz. Tyler, when we heard from the
president, he also talked about positive
talks underway between Iran and the
United States. Where does the diplomatic
off-ramp stand today?
Well Amory, as you well know, this White
House maintains that diplomacy is still
going to be a viable option. Iranian
state media did report yesterday that
Iran was reviewing a US response to its
proposal that it had put on the table
last week that could see a reopening of
the Strait of Hormuz if the US lifts its
naval blockade. But importantly, that
plan had laid out that Iran wanted to
postpone dialogue when it came to its
nuclear program, something this White
House says is a non-starter. Now,
President Trump importantly did say that
talks were making progress, but he also
didn't rule out the potential that we
could see further US military strikes.
Amid reporting that it's something
President Trump is seriously uh
considering in a bid to try to get
through the gridlock of the
negotiations. But Amory, at this point,
the uh administration is saying that
they are going with the economic
pressure instead of resuming that
military campaign. We had the US
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
outlining that outlining that the US
thinks that Iran is coming close when it
does come to its oil storage capacity.
In fact, Bloomberg News had reported on
Saturday that Iran has begun curbing oil
production as its storage tanks fill up,
but a senior Iranian official says that
this is proactive, that they haven't
reached that level yet, but they're
trying to tweak their operations in a
bid not to get to that full capacity.
Tyler, appreciate the update as always.
Tyler Kendall of Bloomberg down in the
nation's capital in Washington, D.C.
Looking at crude this morning, Brent at
the front end of the futures curve, the
front month right now 110 for the month
of July on Brent crude and elevated
across the curve. We're out into the
'90s right up until December where we
trade this morning at 89.
>> Might be too high for this
administration, especially when the
Treasury Secretary's talking about once
this conflict is over, maybe before the
midterm elections, you can actually see
lower gas prices than we are today.
We're at $4.45 today. I think what is
interesting this morning, we saw tons of
whiplash. What I'm taking away from this
is not just the president's words. We
need to see the words actually put to
action. And I think CENTCOM saying that
two US flag merchant vessels
successfully transited through the
Strait of Hormuz is a huge step forward.
But the issue, of course, is that ADNOC
is coming out and saying that their
vessel was targeted. So, we might see
this be a little bit messy when it comes
to that guiding a vessel.
>> is no longer buying the hopium in quite
the same way. And I'd say the key date
for that was April 17th
when the administration came out and
indicated the Strait of Hormuz was going
to reopen. You had this big rally in
risk, this big drop-off in crude, and
then that weekend it didn't open. From
then it was a show-me market. They need
to show me a lot more than what we've
seen so far.
>> It's not just words, they want to see
action. And that is why it's incredibly
important to [music] understand what
CENTCOM is uh actually able to do in
terms of guiding vessels through the
strait. Coming up tomorrow, Jeff Yu of
[music] BMI, we'll catch up with Jane
Foley of Rabobank, Gil Luria of D.A.
Davidson, and Jordan Jackson of JPMorgan
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.